If it's all the same with you John Coochey, when whoever it was that fired the missile says "Yes, we fired it. It was a mistake. We're so sorry", I'll give some thought to modifying my moral outrage. Until then, I'll reserve the right to be disgusted if you don't mind.

People who are in denial about what is, by your own words, "obvious" to anyone, deserve no special favours or presumptions of decency from me.Less than a week into this sickening tragedy and already there's a Ukrainian behind the grassy knoll.The plane was flying from west (where the supposed good guys are) to east (where the supposed bad guys are) having traversed the country's airspace observed on civilian radar.

The plane was at 33,000ft.

The plane wasn't attempting to land in, or reduce height over, the rebel-held areas.

The plane was on track to begin entering into Russian airspace when it was attacked.

There is no mystery here, and no need for "world views". Any Ukrainian action would involve them shooting at a target heading "the wrong way", and seeing as the rebels don't operate fleets of Boeing-like airliners flying around in commercial airspace and altitudes they would have to have assumed it was Russian, had appeared mysteriously over Ukrainian territory from God-knows-where, wasn't worth getting a positive identification on, and could be shot down in the completely safe knowledge that the Russians would just shrug their shoulders and say "Well, s**t happens I suppose".

Get real.

If you want to do some questioning, start with yourself and ask why these facts matter less to you than this ridiculous game of "Oooh, that looks suspicious" whispers you seem to be so keen on playing. These murdering thugs already have the Russian President covering-up for them, they really don't need your help as well.I am truly sad to see what I'm reading here. Not sad for those on Christmas Island, but for some of those sitting at home or work and typing their comments.

This nation is going through an uncovering of some vile deeds which were done (some in our name) to children and young adults in the past. We have heard ad nauseam that people complaining were ignored, sidelined, disbelieved, and hidden away from view. Over and over we have had people promising that this should never have happened, was wrong to have happened, and will never happen again.

I don't care how these people on Christmas Island got where they are, whether they should be there or not, or how righteous some individuals feel about themselves in comparison to others. That tells me everything about what happened yesterday, and absolutely nothing about what is happening today. In strict terms it justifies nothing, explains nothing, and excuses nothing. If we have not learnt from the Child Abuse Royal Commission that there can be NO CIRCUMSTANCES where you can justify ignoring and failing to fully air and investigate a complaint in circumstances where you have absolutely no idea of what is or isn't going on in that environment bar what someone with a vested interest chooses to tell you, then we have learnt nothing.

Just for a moment, forget that they're "illegal", that they're "not one of us", that they're users of people smugglers, that they're "country shoppers", or that they're whatever odious label you want to put on them. They are still people, human beings who, no matter what they've done up until today (and however bad you may view it, it certainly isn't on a par with murder or child molestation), deserve to be listened to in silence and have their claims tested independently with full disclosure.

Either that, or give up using the phrase "Never again". And maybe also that other chestnut "If you've done nothing wrong, you've got nothing to fear".It would be nice if some here today understood that the slogan supplied to people to vote on last September was "Stop the boats", not "Lose your soul".

I understand perfectly that doing the right and decent thing is hard, it costs, it's seldom acknowledged or rewarded, and it can at times be very irritating. What I don't understand is why screaming and yelling and hating is considered a better long-term option for this country. Reputations take lifetimes to build but, in the hands of people who can't see circumstances and consequences beyond their immediate excitability, take seconds to lose.The gist of your thoughts are the closest to my own on this page Rob. I am incredulous reading through what's here.

When this matter of the Prime Minister's responses came up yesterday in the Annabel Crabb article I wrote a comment explaining my position (at 11:42am if you'd like to know what I thought). Now, 24 hours later we've gone from a simple acknowledgement that the PM hit the right notes over one or two days to already having the deep thinkers and strategists out of the woodwork and getting the spinning things spinning.

I can't work out who is losing more out of this whole process, but I suspect it will turn out to be Mr Abbott. We now have people right up close and personal to him like this Terry Barnes bloke actively measuring the angles and applying the final coat of paint to the new Tony edifice (and I think we all remember how well the "new Julia" experiment went down) while Australian bodies and body parts are still lying out in a field somewhere. You have to ask yourself just how much contact men like Terry Barnes have ever had with the real world. You'd have to guess not much.

People like Terry Barnes seem to think they're helping. They're not. They really should shut up. Because this government has travelled so poorly since the election we have these people falling over themselves to hype up every moment they can. After the budget we had days of News Corporation "journalists" yelling at us explaining how we were wrong to hate the contents and we should get over it. That went down like a lead balloon. Now, and from the same pro-Abbott circus we have this sickening wave of leader-adulation that wouldn't be out of place coming from North Korea. The man had a couple of good days when he lucked (if I could use that awful word) onto a situation where his style and the circumstances came together. That's nice for him, and in the Annabel Crabb article I think I gave the appropriate level of credit to him for his fine performance. To callously move from that into this crazy world of winners and losers is, from my perspective at least, absolutely disgusting.

Here's the problem people like Terry Barnes are now dropping in the Prime Minister's lap; they are already talking about how he's gaining (rather than just shutting up about it). We're now only moments away from the Prime Minister being asked a question like "Mr Abbott, people close to you are already highlighting how recent events are going to help you politically. How much do you think you gained from your performance after the tragedy?" That is the closest thing to a red laser dot on your forehead I can think of, and to be fair to the PM it's his so-called friends and supporters who have dragged him into rifle range.It is extremely disappointing (never mind disgusting) to see so much misdirected venom. Annabel Crabb is quite correct to point out that the Prime Minister, probably more through accident than design, has successfully spoken on this issue to date virtually pitch-perfect for a majority of Australians. I won't be voting for his motley crew of liars and bunglers in 2016, but have no problems with giving effusive credit when effusive credit is due. Some of the more savage people who vote the same way I will might want to try doing the same.

"Operation Bring Them Home" was the first indication that he is starting to get a bit carried away with his unexpected, rare triumph. I have no doubt there will be others.

The Prime Minister's blowback for all this unexpected political good fortune from this heartbreaking tragedy comes in November, when he is photographed shaking hands with the baddy on Australian soil, having to sit in the same room as him, and all the while knowing that Australians who were so impressed with his performance back in July are watching him sweating with a mouth full of teeth and very little else. You can be sure when he, through necessity, has to start scaling back the honesty in the name of diplomacy Mr Shorten will find himself quite happy to take over the mantle with the advantage of not having the responsibility to be measured. Populist? Certainly. Disgusting? Definitely. Standard Politics 101? Of course. Straight out of the Abbott playbook? Sadly for him, yes.

Left-wing zealots should try and contain their obvious and unappealing frustration until then. If they are so bothered by giving the man a win when he deserves one they could always remind the Prime Minister there are other baddies only a few hundred metres away from his office in the Senate who he seems too scared to take on as forcefully as he has President Putin. Talking tough is the easy bit. Explaining why you're not talking tough when you clearly know how to do it is what sinks you.Your comment should be directed to anyone who is acknowledging the yin and ignoring the yang Artful Dodger.

I am not in that category, and unless you feel someone should write a book on the totality of the Abbott Prime Ministership taking up all the things you'd like raised rather than keeping to the topic, then I think it's wrong to bring up issues I haven't mentioned rather than stick to the one I have.

In any case, I have little doubt that should Prime Minister Abbott begin to seriously annoy President Putin the 'prison ship' fiasco currently happening, or any one of a number of other Australian diplomatic vulnerabilities that seem to be multiplying at present, will be thrown in his face to keep him quiet.

None of that detracts from a domestically successful performance done in a limited and localised time frame. My point was simply that his "win" today, supplemented by this ridiculous banner waving and boosterism his friendly media pals are laying on with a trowel, raises foolish expectations with the public which he can't deliver on later in the year when he hosts the G20. That is going to cost him big time then, although I'm not sure he's hit on that yet.

Personally, I'd rather not talk about the politics of this human disaster at all, but seeing as Annabel Crabb brought it up I felt it deserved a response. He got something right. He has struggled to get anything right so far. He will struggle for the next two years with the same problem. I'm not that shallow that I refuse to congratulate him when he does buck the trend. It's as easy as that."Maybe we should give up a bit of liberty"

Maybe.

Maybe we should first examine whether hiring a few more people to join the overstretched existing workforce operating within the existing laws wouldn't achieve the same ends.

From memory, Productivity Commission-type arguments have been all the rage recently. I'm afraid the notion that there's only one way to do this, it's "what I say it is, and nothing else", and it's a take-it-or-leave-it option simply doesn't wash. People like Tim Mayfield need to get over the idea that a goal has only one path leading to it. No-one is haggling about the goal, but only a fool would think that this automatically qualifies whatever shonky proposal is cobbled together to reach it demands a similar level of unquestioning acceptance. It doesn't.

Presumably there are options B, C, and D. Let's hear about them as well. Simple as, really. I'm sure the Productivity Commissioners would approve.I'm happy to give it a go if my metadata is stored in the same place, and under the same conditions, as all the metadata gleaned from the spooks, the defence forces, the parliament and public service, and all of the commercial-in-confidence material from major businesses. Presumably as we apparently don't know where these bad guys are hanging out (clearly the case, otherwise you wouldn't need to ensnare everyone) these entities will get the same treatment as everybody else. No doubt they won't have any objections to a bit of "lifting" like the rest of us, and obviously would have no qualms about their stuff sitting in cold storage as well with all of this alleged protection swirling around it.

If not, forget it.

Having it overseen at parliamentary level by someone who actually knows what metadata is would be nice, but I'm happy not to make it a precondition given the unlikelihood of having anyone available to do this.I assume it was the metadata that drew your interest to my comment, because the tone and content certainly appear to have been by-passed.Fortunately, a wise and far-thinking government is already on top of this, having upped the applications rate for the unemployed to 40 per minute (or whatever it is).

Companies will need to buy bigger letterboxes thereby driving the manufacturing sector, posties will need to swap motorbikes for dump trucks to deliver their loads and thus give the moribund automotive industry something new to make, and the need for front-end loaders to move all the paperwork to and from the Human Resources department should nicely take up the slack with operators and machines that might otherwise start standing idle in the Pilbara. We may very well be witnessing the early stages of the world's first postage stamp-led recovery.

Michael Janda should stop this typically left-wing biased ABC negativity of his.Team Australia: World Embarrassment wasn't anywhere near as good as Team America: World Police, and having reporters throwing up and yelling "Loser!" in the press conference room was a shameful, cheap rip-off of the famously magnificent alley scene with Gary Johnston providing the action.

One-and-a-half stars. What did you think Margaret?I note that in the fast-paced world of George Brandis unintentional comedy there was no place left in Annabel Crabb's article for yesterday's David Speers Sky News "metadata" interview. Which is a pity.

Personally, I prefer the glass-half-full approach to that one. Beyond any shadow of a doubt in my mind it's apparent that adults are indeed now running this country. No child I know could possibly be that technologically illiterate. If we could examine the famed bookcases I'm convinced a barely-thumbed copy of "The Internet for Dummies" will be found on one of the less easily accessible shelves.

Everyone has the right to be an incoherent dribbler you know, and I must confess there's something morbidly fascinating in watching someone drown under the weight of their own pomposity.I didn't see the point in supplying a comment to this article. Anyone interested in my views on the matter should simply consult the metadata that comes supplied with this post.I'm more taken by "A fool and his two-party preferred poll lead are soon parted" myself.

"Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Give a man a George Brandis quote and he'll be so busy laughing he'll forget he was ever hungry" is also quite a good one.You get bonus marks for not accusing Caffettierra Moka of "Wyongism" Benice. Well done.

As someone never having been to Wyong (to the best of my memory anyway), I'm guessing I should have the strongest, most strident, and irrational opinions on Wyong out of the three of us, but I just can't seem to find my mojo on this one. As a modern-day opinionated Australian I know I'm letting the side down here.Well, well; the return of commodity trading involving human beings.

Someone might need to dig up William Wilberforce, give what's left a bit of a dusting down, bring him up to speed with the brave new world we've created, and put him to work again. It appears his sterling efforts weren't nearly as over as he thought they were when he last took his leave of us. Not that I blame him; I doubt he ever considered just how important a part of human DNA it is to want to own things.

From memory, I seem to recall it was all about the rights and needs of plantation owners last time. Pleasing to see the market is opening up to those on the lower rungs of polite society as well now. I look forward to Alan Kohler reporting on the day's indices and showing us a few interesting graphs in the evening news."But should my opinion become the law?"

I would have thought the answer to that was self-evident; If your opinion is aligned with those of a majority of other Australians, why ever not?

AJS mentioned the "greed" and "selfishness", you've said you concur, and I'm on board as well. That makes three of us that we know of, and I'd suspect we aren't whistling this tune ourselves. Personally, I'm actually quite a soft touch when it comes to unhappiness mitigation (to the extent that I probably qualify in ranterspeak as a "luvvy" on some - certainly not all - issues), but that point of view stops dead in the water when unhappiness mitigation requires ownership of other human beings for it to work via bizarre permutations of bodily fluid transference. I don't approve of it. I don't like it. To be frank, I couldn't care less that these poor souls are having a dreadful time of it because in the lottery of life they can't conceive. In the old days "God's will" sort-of covered it, but postmodernism seems to have killed off that hitherto very successful way of dealing with disappointment. People who engage in this sort of thing sail very close to one of my definitions of mental illness. If you struggle to deal with it as a morality play there's always the option of having your opinion considered as a health initiative.If those amongst the 44% who are employers in their own right would like to publicly supply their contact details I'm sure it will be possible to get them placed on the mailing list for all of these pointless job applications they're in favour of.

Those who instead are employees could assist by supplying their employer's contact details (and their own name as proof of sponsorship of this marvellous idea) so he or she can reassign them to reading and replying to all of the applications that start coming in.

More lifters, that's what we need. A warm "thank you" to all who volunteered to help.A very silly article.

It's not my job to provide self-help advice to Jane Caro, but experience has taught me the best way to answer a child's question is to do it WISELY. Having a fetish for honesty-at-whatever-cost is the cloak of the immature. True, in many instances truth equates to an exercise of wisdom, but it isn't a 100% direct conversion every time. An intelligent person wouldn't need to have that explained to them. For those who can only simplistically see things as either/or I would just add that you don't just have the two options at your disposal if you're even half good at your job. Perhaps next time try not being prepared to accept the child's initial phrasing of the question, and re-arrange it into a form you feel more comfortable dealing with (if it takes you any length of time to do this you'd be amazed how quickly attention and urgency drops off anyway), answer the question with a question, or in the case of something like the Santa query get them appreciating that "real" has a temporal component to it (as in pointing out that Santa was very real and necessary when they were 4, and that maybe reality is a bit more flexible than it first appears). None of that in any way descends into lying.

If you can't operate as an adult at even this most basic of levels then you're probably not the right person for children to be asking questions of anyway.A side issue in this debate is how the authorities and their string-pullers have chosen poor language to prosecute their case. "Pirates" is a silly, counterproductive term to use in the 21st century. In the old days, when you were alone on the high seas and vulnerable in an unarmed, slow-moving wooden vessel, pirates were indeed a vision of terror. Thanks to Johnny Depp (building on some great work going all the way back to Errol Flynn) they're now actually quite cute and lovable. It's a bit like running a campaign on the dangers inherent in the Australian bush, and fronting it with a talking koala.

There was a small window of opportunity to keep the pirate theme applicable to contemporary Australian fears if it had been tied to something like "The Boat that Rocked" - pirates, boats, processing sounds offshore, illegal entry of undocumented radio waves stealing the audiences of locally-generated radio waves, that sort of thing. A bit clunky to be sure, but I think Scott Morrison may just have been able to pull it off. Regretfully for Messrs Turnbull and Brandis, I fear that orange lifeboat may have already sailed.I do strongly suspect whatever button is pushed it will come supplied with a comical sound like the one given to Alan Davies on every episode of QI. And like that one, it's a pretty sure bet the klaxon will go off after it's been hit.

My thoughts for the sound to be used hover around any one of the following television show themes; Air Crash Investigations, Who Do You Think You Are?, Mission Impossible, Waking the Dead, Lost Worlds, The Biggest Loser Australia, or Mythbusters. I'm open to any better ideas.The vehicle sitting in the driveway is actually a hearse. Not unlike "The Sixth Sense", there are people sitting in ministerial offices inside the house in question who don't know they're dead.Russia and China aligning? Always a possibility I suppose.

However, in light of our own strengthening alliances with regional powerhouses like Sri Lanka, Nauru, and Manus Island I'm sure we're more than globally competitive with any perceived threat looming just over the horizon. You can say many disparaging things about this country if you choose, but having bipartisan leadership that doesn't know how to prioritise strategic relationships for substantial, meaningful benefits surely isn't one of them.Interesting. Put in the position of deciding between the relative veracity and worthiness of commentary from the people and leadership of modern Germany versus the British tabloids. Tough choice. Not.

And seeing as this swirls around the whole issue of the starting of wars, it might be prudent for Australia (and the UK for that matter) to do a bit of remembering and appraisal on the small question of the war they enthusiastically kicked off a bit over eleven years ago. Placed alongside the Germans in a comparison of awareness of, and regret for, past deeds, I note this country seems to come off a very poor second.

I guess that if nothing else it would appeal to the Teutonic sense of schadenfreude to see that "Don't mention the war" now has niggling meaning even in this remote corner of hitherto untroubled, triumphant smugness.If any sensitive soul is struggling to find a way to overcome those lingering feelings of outrage, equanimity imbalance, or random moral perturbation brought on after reading about this nonsense (I'm not one of them by the way, I'm simply trying to provide a helpful community service), try saying "Here Comes Honey Boo Boo" in a Yogi Bear accent.

It sort-of puts the whole thing back in its proper perspective.

It also serves to remind us that we started dressing bears with collars, ties, and hats for our entertainment some while back as well, so maybe what has been described here is some sort of homage to Hanna-Barbera cartoons as much as it's about live-action "entertainment".

And if you'll now excuse me, I've got a picnic basket to retrieve.A poorly thought-out concept. Absolutely no attention has been given to the catastrophic increase in unemployment at programs like Today Tonight and the world of AM radio more broadly if dole bludgers are allowed to go extinct.

I appreciate the handful of dole bludgers shouldering the load and who are doing all of this TV watching, pizza eating, booze swilling, body piercing, drug taking and child neglecting cost money, but have no doubt a Productivity Commission investigation would find they're amongst the real lifters when it comes to keeping an awful lot of ancillary services and individuals in business. This is economic rationalism gone mad. My plea to the government is if you won't do it for yourselves, then at least do it for Alan Jones.I'm not going to buy into any smutty gossip about said radio personality, so I'll refrain from supplying my answer to your first query John51. What people do in their own time is none of my business.

As far as Mr Hockey goes, having almost single-handedly raised the Opposition two-party preferred vote to unseen levels this early into a new administration, I'd have thought "lifter" was self evident.The obvious way around the impasse would clearly be for Andrew Bolt to write about it.And what of the Australia which is simply sick to death of the whole childish region, what must they pick?

What of the people who simply see a never-ending brawl between two fairy stories, each as ridiculous as the other?

What of the Australia which detests being asked to consider the respective merits of one group of religious zealots who, at the slightest drop of a hat, are more than happy to descend back into 14th century ignorance and barbarity, and another group of religious zealots who lie and thieve to reclaim something a supernatural being is supposed to have allotted them for their exclusive use, and who clearly struggle to remember their recent history when the boot was well-and-truly on the other foot?

What of the people who can comprehend the fact that this region has, over many, many centuries been home to all of the ancestors of these clowns, and you may as well call it Palesrael and Isralestine on alternate days of the week?

What of the Australia that looks at these religion-driven imbeciles and thinks the best alternative would be if there was a democracy overseeing the area where neither Jew nor Arab are allowed to stand for election, and we bus in Buddhist, atheist, or Jedi candidates of all political persuasions that they can vote for and have as their representatives - representatives who might have the basic understanding that standing for election is all about delivering for your constituents and nothing about representing your sect so the other sect doesn't get a look in?

What of the people who think "the two-state solution" is the biggest piece of idiocy they've ever heard of?

And finally, what of the Australians who are tired of the spruikers and barkers who magically appear out of the woodwork every time an article of this type materialises, and who are, by default, importing this infantile fracas into a place where it isn't wanted?

It's actually very easy not to pick sides. I've got no time for any of them. My advice, for what it's worth, is just to grow up and call us when you're done.Nonsense. Legislating for what you're in favour of, and against what you're not in favour of, would seem to be the closest approximation to consistency I could think of. How many cases do you win exactly?Amazing. A government on one side of the country is feeding them, another on the other side of the country is killing them. I've had the very good fortune to swim with some of the smaller, less ferocious ones closely on several bewitching occasions, and they seemed like fairly decent and sensible individuals as best as I could tell through the mask, although a bit limited in the communication department admittedly. They certainly don't need this level of backhanded contempt and abject confusion.Just out of interest, Horatio Hornblower was sailing the fictional seas dispensing all manner of derring-do at the time when his ultimate boss was George III. A brave, adventurous man doing the bidding of someone widely suspected to have a screw or two loose and with swans roaming unchecked in the top paddock. I leave whatever parallels may exist in the tale Ms Crabb has laid out before us for each gentle reader to contemplate.Strictly speaking, them paying the piper is only a short-term strategy in lieu of meaningful reform. The ultimate goal is to get a taxpayer-funded subsidy that effectively makes piper-paying no longer an impost on the bottom line, probably coupled with deregulation and red-tape removal of the whole piping sector which could, if pipers can be lured onto individual contracts, possibly lead to the pipers themselves paying for the privilege of being allowed to pipe out a few notes in public. Which is, as anyone who knows about these matters can tell you, the right and proper order of things.They'd be better served sticking to lobbying, complaining and scapegoating, because if my varied experiences of Australian management are as widely replicated elsewhere as I suspect they are, it isn't carbon taxes, unions, exchange rates, recalcitrant people not prepared to be shuffled all over the show both physically and temporally whilst working for sixpence, unsophisticated customers, allowing people to lounge about on these damned nuisance public holidays, an inability to implement laws to allow them to stay open 26 hours a day, sunspots, or even black magic that's holding them back, it's as easy as the gene pool of talented Australians who are any good at actually running a company intelligently having dried up quite a few summers ago.

Around about the time the brave new world of privatisation, liberalisation, globalisation, and all those other wonderful 'isations' kicked-off as I seem to recall.It "is the primary means by which elected representatives reach the people to whom they are ultimately accountable" only by choice. The opportunity always exists (in multiple formats in this the 21st century) for direct communication with any electors who would wish to be so engaged. Laziness, and a distinct lack of imagination, appear to be major stumbling blocks to that approach. The fact that they end up in a symbiotic relationship with another of Earth's undesirable life forms is something which elicits no sympathy from me whatsoever.One of Mark Latham's seminal contributions to public wellbeing was the immortal phrase "Ease the squeeze".

Whilst the application is disturbingly different in this latest offering, my advice to him would be to heed his own words from days past.Good God yes!

Next thing you know the consumers of this insubstantial political diet will be having word limits applied to themselves whenever they attempt to give vent to what they think about the whole state of affairs, crammed into 24 hour time frames to do so and thus prevented from developing meaningful, fleshed-out dialogue with anybody else who may have more than simply a partisan slogan to contribute, and having the whole thing overseen by nameless and faceless arbiters who flick open and closed communication opportunities like a sorting gate in a cattle race.

Yes, it's good to see it written that "some issues demand a greater public presence than slick phrases and policy tailored to match". I hope to learn something more on this topic in the next 20 hours or so.Probably less "Charge of the Light Brigade" and more "Charge of the lightweight brigade".

Half-baked thought, half-baked thought, half-baked thought onward.I suppose this sort of thing was always going to happen when you got rid of the locally made vehicles in the Commonwealth car pool and replaced them with DeLoreans. "It's not you Marty! It's your kids!"

Seeing as we're off down this particular dead-end again it's probably a good idea if we also change the name of the allowance payment from Newstart to Oldhat.

Anecdotally, I hear people never enjoyed the sequel(s) as much as the original.So, less of a broad church and more of a multi-disciplinary asylum then?

One fears the Liberals are not alone on that particular type of score peter of mitcham, but I do admire your candour. Unfortunately true progress will continue to evade attainment until the high priests start shunning the attentions of the unstable fringe, not just their fellow parishioners. Malcolm Turnbull can't do it all on his own you know.Anyone looking for political balance to go with this piece should pull out any old Dennis Shanahan article, read both, then destroy them, admonish yourself for wasting a small, precious part of your God-given allotted time on this planet, and go and do something useful instead.

I appreciate this sort of insider, memo-from-the-top stuff might seem important to the sad people who generate it, but it would help tremendously if they could do a print version that got delivered with the Bunnings catalogue, discount coupons for pizzas delivered after 11pm, and the flyer from the man wanting to help me maintain clean gutters and drainpipes on my roof. That way I can put it all in the recycling bin at the same time instead of doing multiple trips.

The "ALP's think tank" could do with a bloody good hose out if this sort of nonsense is considered a productive use of their time.These "wider set of changes" really just draw attention to people who have run out of ideas. They also seem to strangely ignore the fact that every potential dole recipient is not an isolated individual who can be flogged mercilessly at leisure, but is someone's child, parent, friend, or acquaintance, and that these associated people also get a vote. I understand that boatpeople are a soft target, being largely friendless and anonymous, but I would have thought that kicking the bejesus out of someone who others care about wasn't really the smartest strategy in your armoury of re-election weapons. I guess the consistently disastrous opinion polls since this year's budget are assumed by those they're aimed at to be an aberration and a fraud. Blessed be the idiotic, for they shall inherit the Opposition benches.

Even in straightened times government remains an employer, albeit not necessarily a major one. It would be interesting to know just how many members of the long-term unemployed or youth with little in the way of work experience they themselves take on, or do they just assume somebody else has to do all the lifting while they do the leaning? Perhaps we can find out by having welfare recipients making it a point of applying to every government department, agency, and associated entity they can as part of this new smoke-and-mirrors fetish for wasted applications. At the very least it should drive the people behind this policy mess crazy, and probably become a nice little earner for Australia Post as well. We can then gather up all the rejection notices and dump them outside government offices to ram home the point. The fact that they'd then need to hire some extra staff to help shovel them away from the doors so they could get out to go home would presumably be a bonus.I think we'd all be fascinated to learn the identity of this school and the name of the person alleged to have said what they did.

Unless I'm mistaken, all-girls schools tend to be private institutions, and I'm sure it would be wonderful if you could supply us with details of a supposed paragon of capitalist, market-based virtue that isn't averse to spruiking the odd advantage of socialism along the way. I'm also assuming your complaint about being told this highly offensive and demeaning "information" was hushed up and buried without trace?

I look forward to your reply.Being baffled is in the eye of the beholder.

Me, I'm baffled about the "never-ending flow" remark. If there is some grand scheme of mind control under way I'm certainly not seeing it.

I've just read someone recount their personal experiences. I assume the ABC throws open the site to anyone who wants to write a poignant, from-the-heart opinion piece about how they've suffered or been deeply traumatised by people claiming asylum coming to Australia. Perhaps foolishly, I've always put their absence from these pages down to them not really having a story to tell. I'd definitely be interested in reading any article along these lines, as I'm fascinated to find out how "I'm annoyed" could be stretched out to 700 words using only the agreed principles and facilities of the English language. Not knowing anything apart from clich?s about the individuals you're annoyed with should make it a mighty achievement if it could be pulled off, and positively a literary award contender.

I'm also baffled why you probably aren't baffled about government talking heads and their spruikers (and this transcends the current administration, so please don't view it as a partisan attack) being unable to distinguish between "These people are..." and "Amongst these people are...". I'm baffled why one-sided commentary achieves acceptance as long as it comes out of a ministerial office. I'm baffled why those who do subsequently get classed as refugees by the process aren't given a voice so all of us can perhaps be a little bit more educated than we are at present.

However, I'm not at all baffled that a term like "strident refugee advocate" gets inserted into a comment. It makes it so much easier to bundle up people who may have, how shall I put it, "many sides and complexities" into a single, loaded descriptor that you can aim at. Which, if I look around, would seem to be quite a common practice these days.We currently have a Prime Minister who was born in England.

Not that long ago we had a Prime Minister who was born in Wales.

The kindest and gentlest thing you could possibly say about the ongoing experiment is that the reviews are mixed, but there really is no doubt that a pale complexion and a daggy, bully-attracting accent in the schoolyard has proved no barrier to Australians subsequently queuing up to offer these people a job and a Comcar.

In a country where boatpeople are either made Prime Minister or locked up, if as an immigrant on the same side of the razor wire as the rest of us you feel you can't cut it in your place of domicile and hanker after your old roots to make your political points, my guess is you really must be rubbish.

Or even rubbush.With The Australian's regular array of cheer squad leaders seemingly more than a little bit sheepish these days and afraid to put their noses over the parapet it's good to see the old art of a rousingly loud and spirited, tub-thumping, troop-rallying clarion call is not yet a lost art.

The note of caution about where to from here is wise however; I appreciate the team followers who have been dropping by for some years now to engage in the never-ending game of we're winning/you're losing as it ebbs and flows are unable to see past the pointless pseudo-security of the two-party preferred number, but it's worthwhile mentioning at this early stage that the most logical outcome in 2016 is another hung House of Representatives (with the same abysmal level of "talent") and a Senate just as difficult to herd as the one now. Anyone thinking being offered the crumb of getting to sit to the right of the Speaker under these circumstances constitutes a "win" needs their head read.

Longevity will probably fall to the first footy team to understand that a majority in the HoR isn't the mega prize it once was, and that success is now measured by how adept you are at working with what you've been given by the Australian people (rather than complaining about it). Based on past performance and current ineptitude I'd say that favours the Labor Party easily at this stage. At least until the Liberals wake up and get Malcolm back in the chair (and having the mumblers deal with that - for them - unpalatable outcome in private).What the two major blocs just can't seem to get into their heads is that the Australian voting public is not going to give either of them a compliant Senate with the level of dross currently infecting their ranks. Much is made about the Ricky Muirs of this world getting a seat with only 17 votes (or whatever it was), but ignore the fact that the Ricky Muirs of this world all spring from the "None of the above" pool (which, when added up, DO qualify for seating arrangements). Whichever one pops out of the lucky dip is down to black magic, but unless you want to take Ricky's nostrils, John Madigan's toenails, Bob Day's left armpit and proportionate body parts from all the other "None of the aboves" who got votes and assemble humans out of them in Canberra, then THAT is the simple reality.

In my opinion, both Bill Shorten and Malcolm Turnbull have the characteristics to be able to work with this reality from different perspectives; Shorten with the undoubted benefit that comes from union negotiating sessions, and Turnbull with the urbanity and respect he can engender by seeming not to be a lout or a chancer. The current chap has no idea. He is a dinosaur, and he's dragging a whole raft of other dinosaurs around with him. He would do well to take his leave.

The upshot is that, should a "major" party start looking like they can work with whatever's placed before them, they'll in all probability be rewarded down the track with a Senate more pleasing to deal with. A classic chicken-or-egg scenario that they can't seem to grasp - yelling and grizzling at the Australian people out of a sense of entitlement (has no one explained about the new theories around entitlements?) is only going to have more blazing tyres and barbed wire thrown on the roadblock. Whoever works this out first "wins", in my opinion.Pardon me for noticing, but I'm really struggling to detect any "happy" in your demeanour. I guess "a dispirited and embittered little debunker" doesn't roll off the tongue quite as nicely.

You also might need to re-check some of those checks.Give me a call back when it starts grating a lot. Having quickly checked your canon of four contributions (to date) on this page, I'm having difficulty - apart from the humour, obviously - telling their respective merits apart when it comes to matters of substantiality."Abbott gaining momentum? In your dreams!"

Clearly not a student of science.

Momentum is a vector quantity with magnitude expressed as the product; mass x velocity. Being a vector quantity it can be expressed in any of our regular three dimensions, and obviously that includes straight down. Terminal velocity can always be enhanced by assuming a head-down orientation as you plummet, and not bothering to jump with a parachute pack on in the first instance* can have significant streamlining benefits as you enter denser air and begin to be buffeted. Growing a bigger head on the way down and accumulating baggage along the way can both increase the instantaneous mass of the object in flight, and so feed into the equation to further increase the calculated momentum.

Gaining momentum this early into the dive is not only possible, it's almost certain given the attitude and direction of the diver.

* The potential downside from adopting this incredibly risky strategy can be off-set by chucking a chubbier, fellow free-faller out first and trying to land on them to cushion the impact. Refer to the article content for details.Equality in peril? Nonsense.

I was happy enough to buy the "worst government of all time" palaver with the last crowd (although, to be fair, way more for how they conducted themselves than the actual meat-and-potatoes that were served up), and this current collection of Mr Beans have shown themselves to be every inch their match. The fact that they've got there so fast does have me wondering at what point they're going to slow down to the trend line rather than drop the bar still lower though, so perhaps I've called the equality race too soon.

That's what we need; 226 of our finest gathered in one place showing us inspirationals that mental ability and self-conduct egalitarianism is indeed a holy grail within reach."Can the Coalition's copayment policy be repaired?" asks the headline.

"No" is the obvious answer. You only repair things that are broken. Dead things usually get buried.

I'd have thought a man who was the director of the Health Program at Grattan Institute would at least know this much about the basics in his chosen field of endeavour.'Bad news sells bad newspapers' might be a more apt statement.

And, if memory serves, newspapers (be they of whatever particular flavour) aren't doing terribly much selling just lately anyway. Mercifully, that's one suicide they aren't reporting on in graphic detail.Much can be made of the negative aspects of religion, but it can't be denied that as a means of coalescing dangerous idiots who would otherwise be randomly dispersed and potentially undetectable in a society so they can be identified and dealt with, it has no secular equivalent anywhere near as effective.

If people (and I use the term somewhat loosely) feel they are helping themselves by tearing up their past, it really isn't necessary to spend too much time and effort trying to defeat them; they should manage to achieve that all by themselves. We just need to keep the door locked and the windows closed whilst they're doing it."There must be limits in the tolerance one affords lunatics"

True. And if I was advocating tolerance of lunacy it would even have some application to what I have written. There must however also be recourse to a map at some point to determine how far the rocket-propelled grenades etc. are from your door and windows. Just as I would apply a lower level of threat alert to anyone currently sitting on the moon with a rocket-propelled grenade, so would I do here also. The alarmist tone of your post suggests the idiots and lunatics (your words) are currently parked in a Toyota ute at the end of my street. They're not. Because they're not I perhaps take a different line to the one you may wish to take involving the movement of (mostly) young men's lives around a chess board to satisfy your stay-at-home, let-somebody-else-do-my-fighting-for-me outpouring of indignation.

When it comes to "MUST", if you feel so strongly about it, you can lead the charge."Don't panic, unemployment isn't that dire" says the headline.

Interesting thesis. I suspect that, graphs or no graphs, that's going to be a mighty hard sell to anyone afflicted by the said condition."Envelopes in the internet? Who even knew"

There's also spam and cookies there, which could explain why they've made a meal of it.

Interesting to see the old person/young person divide on the approval rating. I suppose that simply comes down to (1) older generations having the unintended advantage of doing most of their stupid stuff at a time when, even if it ever got recorded for posterity, it was on a bit of paper which is (if it's still extant) sitting in an anonymous filing cabinet somewhere, (2) older generations not having much of a clue about the question they're responding to (any takers for "The Brandis Syndrome"?), or (3) members of older generations who do do a spot of terrorism dabbling on the side between bingo nights not being as concerned about the consequences of discovery leading to a life sentence nearly as much as a younger person would.Being 64 and obviously of good character, I'd assumed you were familiar with the dictionary definition of "wry" and weren't overly enamoured by the use of smiley-face symbols. I apologise for making those unwarranted assumptions.

Also, it's very pleasing to learn you don't practice terrorism in any fashion. Keep it up.Wonderful fighting words tomtoot. Perhaps next time you may wish to be certain about the age of the intended target before firing them off (hint: "wry" isn't a word too many people under the age of 50 could define without recourse to a dictionary, never mind actually bother to use). However, if you think your bellicose mumblings have in any way showcased the inherent superiority of your (our) age cohort, by all means more power to your arm. Me?, well I just think it's funny. Thanks for your input.Dr Newson's article draws attention to what I find as a most glaring blind spot in the world of "disability advocacy". To summarise the unspoken line of thinking of the people being advocated to a bit crudely it runs as "Seeing as you're here it's only right and proper that we treat you with equality and due consideration, but if the truth were to be known none of us would actually choose to have you here in the first place if we could do anything about it".

I see a great deal of effort being put into changing the ingrained and hurtful thinking of past generations towards disabled people whilst ignoring the elephant in the room - it would be a VERY exceptional person who said they would have wanted a disabled child/friend/acquaintance in the first instance if the matter of their very existence was one of choice.

The wonderful world of medical research has one of its unspoken goals the elimination of certain types of human who fall outside the definition of "normal". I suspect at some future time the aim would be to have a museum of the (what will be considered at the time) grotesque, where those future generations can come and have a look at what dreadful versions of humanity could potentially emerge without the intervention of the brave new world of effective genetic screening. I'm only guessing, but I think those future museum visitors would be mighty relieved to know those sorts of things are safely confined to the past.

Personally, I'm happy for people to spend their time advocating for things like wheelchair ramps, mentally-impaired people having an equal place in community life, and constantly telling us we need to do better, but I have this awful feeling the people they think they're making such good progress with actually have a dirty little secret they're keeping to themselves. I have to admit that discovering people are being nice to you out of sufferance because they don't yet have the technology to not have to worry about needing to be nice to you at all would hit me very hard if I were disabled, and make me wonder just what definition of "progress" is actually being used to explain my situation.

A subject too touchy for open, mature discussion perhaps?People operating in private to determine the levels of privacy others will be subjected to. Nope, I would never have spotted the inconsistency either.

It appears the prophylactic mentioned towards the end of the article needed to have been applied far earlier.Applying for a job with FedEx and developing an affinity for (a) volleyball has been known to pay off if you're not overly troubled by the possible consequences of over-water flying.

Either that, or conduct deviously secretive mind-control experiments on the dog(s) you mentioned and manipulate them to rip the throats out of their annoyingly inquisitive masters on command. Clearly the fewer King Charles Spaniels and Maltese Poodles there are in the mix, the easier this will be to implement.

Hope that is of some use.Funny old world. Last week Paula Matthewson saw (in sequence) gun-sticking, loss-cutting, and diversion-creating. I just saw three randomised, unscripted cock-ups. Comments like "self-sabotage" and "...can there be any other explanation...?" attempt to paint a picture of depth and complexity that completely passed me by.

If the fourth stage of trying to save your tail is getting someone to then parcel it all up as an example of cleverness gone wrong rather than simply stupidity gone right, then I think I've just read the article that does that. Nice try though.Amusing to note it isn't necessary to travel all the way to the Middle East to watch your very own version of the Israeli/Palestinian he-started-it-first fiasco. I suppose the difference here is we have a revolving door of opportunity for each religion to get the chance to run Israel.

I personally don't mind a Liberal complaining today about rockets being fired out of Labor-held Gaza, but perhaps it would be nice if there was some sort of acknowledgement that not too long ago Liberals were digging tunnels from the same ghetto towards Labor-held Jerusalem when they held the keys to the city.

I guess it confirms the old adage that in warfare it's the civilians who bear the brunt. "Iron Dome" might seem like a good idea in theory, but it tends to fall over when both sides have a copy of the blueprints and an equal share in building it.Actually, there are some of us who don't "...care more for being smarter than the next person with our incisive comments..." so much as enjoy the occasional acknowledgement of the incisiveness of their comments, happy that they've been able to contribute that level of incisiveness into the forum for the benefit of anyone who appreciated it, and who are just as delighted when they get to read the gift of incisiveness from someone else on the forum about something they haven't thought of (or thought of in that manner).

It's only a competition, a battle to the death, a football match without the sweat, a trampling of dissenting opinions, or an excuse for rampant egotism if you want it to be. Some of us just like having quality to give and receive in equal measure.I'd like to thank Ian Verrender for writing a sophisticated article which actually (not that you'd guess it from the majority of comments to date) isn't about Russia (or anywhere else "foreign") at all, but all about the development of a secret weapons facility under the noses of people looking elsewhere, and the quiet painting of targets on the foreheads of people who clearly don't have ready access to a mirror. Weapons of Mass Destruction would appear to be yesterday's news, and Weapons of Mass Impoverishment are well-and-truly "in". Losing your territory isn't the goal in contemporary warfare; all you need to lose is your liberty to make your own decisions. A hearty "well done" to all the mindless drones who have spent so much effort over so much time bringing this about.

I'd just like the author to know his efforts weren't completely lost in the rush, and that a few readers actually "got" it. I look forward to hopefully one day seeing a defence White Paper that shows more interest in this country's labyrinthine array of straightjackets it's signed itself into rather than the number of Chinese submarines in service. Probably way too late now anyway.Not really. It's just that there's such an embarrassment of riches to be bemused about at present, and what passes as inattention is simply a populace spoiled for choice and unable to commit. You shouldn't take it personally or feel you're in any way "odd".This article makes no logical sense whatsoever. Helen Andrews lists two alleged fallacies she says she wants to debunk, and then doesn't.

She tackles the first alleged fallacy by ignoring increased lifespans and whatever effect this can have on those having them and tells us all about Ohio 100 years ago instead. Changing the topic, at least as far as I'm concerned, seldom debunks anything.

The second alleged fallacy is likewise treated. Telling me that certain religious groupings (probably more correct to say certain groupings within certain religious groupings) have a historical record tells me nothing about what others in that grouping may or may not be doing today.

Helen Andrews obviously has a problem with Dr Nitschke. That's fair enough, and I don't think anyone would seriously wish to want her to keep quiet about that. In her apparent rush to get this point of view onto the page she unfortunately seems to have developed a corresponding problem with the basics of arguing a position logically. She also hasn't provided a very good advertisement for the mental capabilities of those operating out of the Centre for Independent Studies either.

Euthanasia may certainly not be modern as the headline indeed states, but neither is obfuscation.As any economist could tell you Michael, credit is easier to afford when interest is low.I guess the one positive is that nobody has so far suggested cleaving the children in two with a sword and giving one set of halves to the secularists and the other halves to the religiously minded. I wouldn't even begin to know how that would impact on the Gonski funding model, but I suppose technically it would double the number of students and therefore require even more cash to be found.

A case of the old ways not always being the best ways perhaps?I don't know whether that violates the dictum of "What man has cast asunder, let no god join together".

You do also realise that with you entering the debate it's now become the 'Banana Split problem' in my mind, don't you?I didn't really pay much attention to this article because I don't bond with, or give any serious attention to, plain-looking women with small breasts. Given the choice, I like my articles written by someone with soft, fleshy tits, tall, a bit butch, and with a bit of a thing for balaclavas in the bedroom. God I miss Peter Reith.

Funny thing is, up until recently I wouldn't have thought going public with this did either me or any unlucky listener any good, but seeing as Lauren Rosewarne says it's now ok to spew your innermost thoughts all over the airwaves no matter how inappropriate it might have been last week, I suppose it must be.

Strange thing is I don't feel in any way at all empowered.Mr Callaghan is incorrect, it isn't "Australia" which will be in "...an invidious position...", it will be the current Australian Prime Minister.

If Mr Abbott finds himself being forced (however reluctantly, and with whatever level of lack of warmth is diplomatically allowable) to shake hands with President Putin in November on Australian soil, his prospects at the next election are trashed.

Having already used the 'G20 is an ECONOMIC forum' line to diss global warming having any legitimate role at the table, he now is unable to beg for an exception in this case.

I think Mr Shorten may have cottoned-on to this when he specifically mentioned the G20 in his speech to parliament on the tragedy, which probably suggests he's a more savvy politician than even I give him credit for being.

The Australian Prime Minister has a very big problem waiting in his in tray with this one. The Australian public are not going to go easy on any man who lets this butcher into this country and shares a glass of bubbly with him.

And with an election due not long afterwards, I suspect Premier Newman isn't going to think it's a barrel of laughs having the Russian President swanning around his state either.A plane flying west to east across Ukraine is mistaken by the Ukrainians as an enemy, rebel-linked target?

You're going to have to do a lot better than that.

The idea that the Russians, with their long Cold War experience, would not have the capability to detect and record any missile launch even remotely near their border is ridiculous. If they had even the slightest piece of evidence that it came from the Ukraine side they'd have told the whole world by now.

Forget YouTube and the world of crazy theories. Just for a change, listen to the silence instead.Maxine Montaigne tells us "...the Australian people are just not buying it".

Why is this a surprise exactly? A clear majority of Australian people have obviously heard the message that "This reckless spending must stop", have held the product package up to the light and seen that it resembles a crisps packet with way more air than crisps, and have put it back on the shelf. That is simply responsible economic behaviour, and should be applauded as such.

If we're delving into the world of morals here, then you need to start with a manufacturer who makes turd-flavoured crisps, hides them in an opaque, air-filled packet, quotes misleading nutritional "facts", and tries to get them put in every kid's lunchbox.

No-one is denying that in our current, exhausted economic state we need to eat something, but that doesn't mean any old rubbish can be passed off as appetising. It isn't a "selling" issue; it's an "ingredients" one.I'm guessing that as an act of solidarity and good old-fashioned money-where-your-mouth-is sincerity the Department of Policing, Intelligence and Counter-Terrorism at Macquarie University will be moving their headquarters to Baghdad so they can be even more insightful than they have been in this article by closer contact with the problem. Or is this just another case of "Forward, he cried, from the rear..." as Pink Floyd once sang about?

I think ISIS might best be dealt with by resurrecting a military tradition we're celebrating the centenary of this year - having enthusiastic and highly opinionated everyday Joes downing tools at home and flocking to recruiting stations to sign up and take the fight up to the enemy after a bit of basic training and some marching practice. I can already supply the first two names, and assure the good lecturers there's a television program or two in it for them in 100 years time.Fanatic kills innocent. Fanatic posts images. Media reproduces images as story. Other media produces stories based on the original story. Everyone joins in discussing images, discussing the story, discussing stories-about-stories, discussing people discussing the images, etc, etc, etc. Fanatic just laughs himself stupid.

Of course, you could always just ask why newspaper stories need pictures at all. I believe that newspapers 100+ years ago could tell the stories, and actually make money whilst they were doing it, with a text-only product. Which is probably a bit too whimsical a point to make on a web page that has a barely-relevant photo prominently displayed on it.You are, of course, aware that we are having this nice, cosy exchange of text-only-based knowledge and opinion between the two of us without appearing to be any poorer for the experience I suppose? Additionally, other unknown (to us) eyes may be drifting past as we chat and also be similarly uplifted - and all of this happening without the benefit of a single image.

There's also the small matter that if getting and keeping eyeballs on a page required a bombardment of images to make it work, the novel would have died at conception.I would have come to this page regardless of any imagery to partake of your genius musings Ann. You clearly underestimate yourself.A topic where "wanting A child" swirls around and intermeshes with "wanting THEIR child", much to the detriment of the debate.

As a personal opinion, I DO NOT equate the two. There may be very sound genetic reasons wrapped up in the wondrous thing that is DNA why people unable to produce a child of their own are that way - I don't know, and nor, I suspect, does anyone else at this point of the whole code-unravelling exercise. The idea that you should push back against what your code has supplied you with simply because you can is something that could do with a bit more holistic thinking than it currently receives (and yes, I do understand that if extrapolated this takes you into the whole question of many recent medical advances - I merely propose that not all genetic "defects" should necessarily be viewed through the same prism of being a purposeless corruption of code until we learn a bit more about the code itself). A simple case of the precautionary principle, but one certain to enrage - or so I strongly suspect.

Again, as a personal opinion, I don't place those wanting THEIR child anywhere near as high on my worthiness scale as those wanting A child. Others are more than welcome to hold a more equitable interpretation should they choose. To be brutally frank, in my blinkered world people wanting THEIR child when A child is already here (or on the way) unwanted and unloved can go jump. Simple as. Once the existing imbalance has been successfully dealt with we can start pandering to these people's vanities, and not before. I may be on the losing side with this one, but I guess that's life.

For the record I'm not a religious nut, anti-abortion fanatic, or even remotely interested in seeing this as a morality-based question. I simply look at a supply on one side and a deficit on the other, and see the logical and ethical way of approaching it is by re-jigging the mechanics of the imbalance in-house before rushing to outside intervention. A bit like the whole 457 visa palaver I suppose - if someone is looking for a marginally less controversial and temperature-raising analogy.On multiple levels this looks like a scenario tailor-made for Clive Palmer.

Those busy yelling at him in the press yesterday and today may have lunged out of the starting stalls in their haste a moment too soon. A successful nation always knows how to use its available resources wisely.That's actually two questions.Firstly, I'd like to support the general thrust of most of the comments to date. I'm not as impressed about Dr Burns' efforts as she clearly is herself, but that is simply the unsolicited opinion of a complete stranger and nothing anyone need concern themselves with. My comment pertains to more substantive matters.

I grew up in what would be considered a very cold household on the question of who did what in the past and where I "came from". The reasons for that can only be guessed at, and I certainly was not of the personality type to go against the flow in this regard. "Children should be seen and not heard" was much more in vogue then than it appears to be today. In basic terms it was a case of "well, that's the way it is". I accepted that, didn't have it gnawing away at me, and have concentrated on having a happy and productive life in the here-and-now rather than obsessing about ancient mysteries. Not for everyone perhaps, but it worked/works for me.

A few years back my partner (who is a more "family-friendly" individual) was doing some random genealogical digging and unearthed my mother's father's World War I service records and ancillary paperwork. I wasn't particularly interested but had a look anyway, more to keep the peace rather than out of any enthusiastic curiosity. The upshot was (something my partner hadn't noticed) that my "grandfather" couldn't possibly be my grandfather. Further partner-digging confirmed a single mother giving birth to a daughter in distressing circumstances in wartime England.

So, from this I now know one aunty and one uncle aren't that at all, as they came later and are indeed part of the official lineage. Fortunately for all concerned, they are now all dead and buried. My mother took this secret to her grave, and would have been devastated and hugely distressed if she ever knew that I knew. Fortunately, she made it through to the end with her secret safe. I don't love or respect her any less for that - that was what she wanted, and I'm happy to accept she has/had rights too. It was a different time and a different world then, and only foolish people take today's morality and norms and overlay them on distant days.

So, to Dr Burns I simply say this; You feel terribly empowered and vindicated by wandering around in the private affairs of the living. You seem to think this is a "right" all should share. I don't. I think the living should be entitled to hide away anything that they feel could cause them pain and distress regardless of how tantrum-inducing it may be to you. By all means, after they're dead feel free to rummage through their mental cupboards for any trinkets that satisfy your petulant wants. However, for God's sake give them the right to first call on what is or isn't up for discussion whilst they're alive.Try just getting over it. Worked for me.Firstly, I'd like to support the general thrust of most of the comments to date. I'm not as impressed about Dr Burns' efforts as she clearly is herself, but that is simply the unsolicited opinion of a complete stranger and nothing anyone need concern themselves with. My comment pertains to more substantive matters.

I grew up in what would be considered a very cold household on the question of who did what in the past and where I "came from". The reasons for that can only be guessed at, and I certainly was not of the personality type to go against the flow in this regard. "Children should be seen and not heard" was much more in vogue then than it appears to be today. In basic terms it was a case of "well, that's the way it is". I accepted that, didn't have it gnawing away at me, and have concentrated on having a happy and productive life in the here-and-now rather than obsessing about ancient mysteries. Not for everyone perhaps, but it worked/works for me.

A few years back my partner (who is a more "family-friendly" individual) was doing some random genealogical digging and unearthed my mother's father's World War I service records and ancillary paperwork. I wasn't particularly interested but had a look anyway, more to keep the peace rather than out of any enthusiastic curiosity. The upshot was (something my partner hadn't noticed) that my "grandfather" couldn't possibly be my grandfather. Further partner-digging confirmed a single mother giving birth to a daughter in distressing circumstances in wartime England.

So, from this I now know one aunty and one uncle aren't that at all, as they came later and are indeed part of the official lineage. Fortunately for all concerned, they are now all dead and buried. My mother took this secret to her grave, and would have been devastated and hugely distressed if she ever knew that I knew. Fortunately, she made it through to the end with her secret safe. I don't love or respect her any less for that - that was what she wanted, and I'm happy to accept she has/had rights too. It was a different time and a different world then, and only foolish people take today's morality and norms and overlay them on distant days.

So, to Dr Burns I simply say this; you feel terribly empowered and vindicated by wandering around in the private affairs of the living. You seem to think this is a "right" all should share. I don't. I think the living should be entitled to hide away anything that they feel could cause them pain and distress regardless of how tantrum-inducing it may be to you. By all means, after they're dead feel free to rummage through their mental cupboards for any trinkets that satisfy your wants. However, for God's sake give them the right to first call on what is or isn't up for discussion whilst they're alive.It's funny how the mandatory tax-paying to build the mandatory jails to accommodate all the additional mandatory detaining somehow never manages to garner the same degree of enthusiasm.

I'd almost be tempted to assume that not bothering to think this arrant nonsense through is mandatory.

Rumour has it the same sorts of people across a range of different governments are also somehow convinced this nation has severe budgetary pressures. Funny about that too.Looking at the right direction/wrong direction figures it's pleasing to see that, apart from one statistical blip last September, the number of Australians who really don't know just what exactly is going on remains one of the great societal beacons of stability in an uncertain world.

If you're a latte-sipper with intellectual pretensions you can demean stupidity all you like, but you can't ever argue that it's a stress-inducing killer. Not of anyone so afflicted at any rate.I understand that at different places of initial settlement around Australia one of the first tasks implemented was to get the convicted among them to build their own prisons. Perhaps something from the past Professor Twomey may wish to consider. After all, seeing as they've already secured the land...

It could always be sold as a case of ICAC leading to Theycack.

On the broader question though, the professor seems to have not grasped the subtleties of modern political language; the additional words are said very quickly, very softly and at a frequency which can normally only be heard by dogs, but the slogan we hear as "tough on crime" is actually "tough on other people's crime".Absolutely correct.

Unless this is an underhanded attempt to support the Australian brown paper bag manufacturing industry by requiring the purchase of even more of the said items to subsequently be stuffed with cash, then I don't know where this is going.

Even lobbyists have overheads you know. Shame on you Dr Hewson."And Hockey for one might feel some justified resentment..."

If Joe Hockey is so needy as to require gushing adoration, he should either consider applying for a job as a kitten or else change his name to Raymond, as my sources tell me everyone loves him. Clearly though, becoming a kitten called Raymond will maximise the cuddles and "Ooooh, isn't he cute"s, and would obviously be the ultimate solution if implementable.

Otherwise he should just start doing what he's being paid to do (which is the onerous, unfair burden the rest of us are saddled with in the tyranny of life), or else take a pay cut and let somebody else be hired as a sub-contractor to do his lifting for him."Judgement" I'll run with, but if the word "leadership" now sails into view on the back of nothing more than not being a scumbag (scumbrownbag?), then this nation is in way more serious difficulty than even I'm prepared to admit.

Koalas were mentioned in passing in the article. Seeing as the supposedly best and brightest humans this country can put forward don't seem to be able to operate at a level consistent with the development of opposable thumbs and foreshortening of the tailbone I'd say there's probably nothing much to be lost by throwing our governance open to talented marsupials and seeing what they're capable of. If nothing else, having celebrities who come to this country being photographed holding a human would give them a very self-satisfying revenge indeed.John Brown's quirky thoughts that marsupials are merely sporrans that haven't been caught yet would have horrified The Queen if they'd ever been voiced, and are just as inappropriate today.

We are not amused.A tantalising question Big Al. I suppose it's dependent upon whether Premier Napthine has an effective "Stop the Scrotes" policy in place or not."Science minister anyone?"

If you Google "The 43rd Parliament: traits and trends" and have a look at Figures 5 &amp; 6 and Table 2 in the report you'll see the chances of getting someone even vaguely familiar with the brief aren't what you might call encouraging.

For all we know, Clown Central might be under the impression scientists don't own cars or travel very far in them even if they have one. I'm guessing at school they probably thought that chemistry, physics and biology were the subjects dags chose. It certainly seems there's firm evidence to suggest they felt that way about maths."No doubt his fellow leaders were bewildered. His own country's press called it a whinge"

His own country's press needs to be more on top of correct English language usage than they appear. Adults whinge, infants throw tantrums."Surely nobody is silly enough to think that Time is anything but a bland seller of commercial space, filled in with copy from some agency in the USA that promulgates American interests?"

With you being a regular imbiber and commenter on these pages Professor, I'm truly surprised you haven't as yet pegged down just what levels of silliness are indeed truly possible when the good burghers of this space put their collective shoulders to the wheel.

This article, being about feminism, gender more broadly, corporate shenanigans, and selective use of "evidence" virtually guarantees a bumper crop today for you to peruse at your leisure. Enjoy.Interesting. Here we were worrying about ISIS, when it seems the real death (of a nation's ability to make its own laws for its own interests) cult is ISDS.A very useful article. As someone who once served on a jury dealing with charges that also carried this sort of definitional requirement (in that case it was receiving stolen goods - and knowing the goods were stolen at point of taking possession is an integral part of the conviction criteria) I believe this sort of thing deserves far greater scrutiny.

From what I could gather from "my" case, prosecutors who know the evidence doesn't support the charge will still try it on with juries in the hope that irrational anger and some sort of hillbilly law-and-order mentality will trump a strict and proper discharge of one's duties - and in the jury room I was in there was ample evidence this does indeed work on some people. Fortunately for the accused I/we was responsible for adjudicating on, there were enough intelligent people in the room to pull the discussion in the right direction.

There is a big question to be answered here as to why society has to foot the bill for this sort of legal adventurism - even if our jury had sent the person down I have no doubt even more money would have ended up being wasted getting a silly verdict devoid of any linkage to the available evidence overturned on appeal.

I appreciate some people see the court system as a vengeance machine - I just would be grateful if they were solely the ones paying for their "pleasures".I have absolutely no idea what your point is, or why it is attached to my post.

I mentioned "conviction criteria" - there was no mention whatsoever of "a technicality".No, not a lawyer - we have already reached our quota for that particular subspecies on these pages, and they do some stellar work I must say.

As I was there, as the Crown led no verbal or written evidence* that the accused was aware the items were stolen when they came into his possession, and as the jury fairly quickly got back on track when this lack of evidence was identified as the sticking point, I'm not sure I'm really the one who may well be ill-informed.

* The ONLY mention of this third conviction criterion (the other two are (a) that the goods be proved to have been stolen and (b) that they be proved to have been in the accused's possession by the way) that the judge advised us of in summing up was courtesy of the police walk-around video interview of the accused at the time of his arrest (which we had in the jury room for our deliberations). At one point the accused explains how he came home and found the goods in question there having been delivered by his landlord (who the accused stated was still there with the goods). It was not pursued any further in the interview, and as I said, nothing else was led as Crown evidence or questioning. Personally, that hardly suggests that the Crown ever "had a case" - in my opinion (and the final opinion of my 11 other jurors) at least.

You, not being there, may no doubt have more of a balanced and thoughtful take on events.I'm not sure Ian Verrender has pulled the right moral out of this story. Gail Kelly would indeed seem to be someone who knows how to sniff the wind - admittedly blindsided by GFC Mark 1 (she wasn't alone there - an awful lot of people carried away with their own genius and unable to spot the flaw in their (mortgaged) house of cards got caught by that one), she does appear to have subsequently learnt her lesson and has used her time since wisely to pick when to head for the exits before Mark 2 arrives.

I only mention it because an eclectic collection of supremely optimistic people have just finished a gathering where they've come to the conclusion the future is poised to deliver oodles of this wonderful "growth" thingy and buckets of sunny optimism. So much so they're betting their future on the outcome.

I know which alleged "expert" has my attention.Sounds just like the perfect person to sign a document promoting "free" trade. Being obviously so closely aligned with freedom in its myriad forms, his imprimatur should make it a rip-roaring success.Marsupials call it "pouchfronting", and no, from what I can make out both seem way more interested in getting away from there with some small part of their dignity still intact. Sleeping for 23 hours a day may provide some measure of protection from ridicule, but there'll always be that one hour when your mates are teasing you about the company you've been keeping lately.It's already delivered.

We now know more about levels of ignorance than we did yesterday.I fear you and I hold very different definitions of "balance" Ian, and I'll lay mine out in case we can arrive at some form of accommodation.

All the action and thrill-seeking on these pages comes in the comments section - the articles themselves are just the rev-up to start the juices flowing. The types of topics that you mention are wonderful goads to encourage a swathe of very excitable people who would otherwise be sitting around sulking and complaining that "no-one ever listens to me" to come and join us for a natter. Today's one for example - a piece of loaded self-interest from a boutique owner (a red rag if ever I saw one) - has been a magnet for all those who enjoy the "these inconsiderate bastards are getting in the way of my compassion" approach to life to fire up and regale us. Without Michael Bradley making the effort, and the ABC providing the space, those people would be bereft of stages upon which to shine - there's only so much satisfaction to be gained by always hanging around The Australian and typing "Yeah!" and "You tell 'em!" you know. Man does not live by agreement alone.

Balance, to my mind, is to be found when both crackpot and latte sipper (or whatever the preferred insult is) get to meet on the same playing field for a few hours of sport. Continually sitting around in log cabins in Montana or spending the entire morning shopping for tofu is not a healthy pastime - there comes a point when smelling someone else's rancid breath rather than just your own becomes more a public health initiative than a curse.

There IS nowhere else for many of the people here to go, and the revolving door of bait trailed through the water ensures there's always a good feed for those starved of rantable opportunities.

Balance is what balance does - in this case provide the inflammatory yin to the incoherent yang. To see what is published here in article form as the only point of reference for evaluation misses the best of the exercise - the space where we are now. I'd happily contend no other media space does as much, or does it as well, as The Drum when it comes to putting antagonists in touch with one another.Good questions all.

Now, if you'd like to request that your elected representatives stopped running a system so devoid of transparency and the right to meet with, and question, those with whom you (legitimately) have an issue with, then I feel we'd all be better off.

The man is no doubt guilty of doing something with which you disagree. He's certainly not guilty of withholding the details of it from you - in fact, I suspect he'd be happy to chat with you at any time or place (Hmmm) of your choosing. I suppose it comes down, in part, to who you think is most treating you as a fool - him, or the ones detaining him. I have my suspicions."What do you suggest, we take all right wing politicians out to the desert and shoot them?"

Absolutely not. They already get a travel allowance; they need to find their own way there without recourse to further dipping into the public purse. Once there I expect them to refuse to comment on operational matters, deny that deserts have anything to do with global warming, blame the fact that they're there at all on Labor/Greens incompetence, and then authorise a private contractor to shoot them without using taxpayer-subsidised bullets.

"...be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life". Revelations 2:10What an incredibly bizarre article. Supposedly a revelatory piece about Putin and Russia, somewhere between two thirds and three quarters of what's here relates to the ravings and mindset of some fringe crazy.

I presume Matthew Dal Santo would be completely at home with the idea of a Russian counter-article that goes into great depth exploring the thoughts and utterances of such pivotal Australian intellectual luminaries as Bob Katter, Alan Jones, and Prince Leonard of the Hutt River Province as a compellingly effective way of summing up Australia and its political governance in the Year of our Lord 2014?

I certainly wouldn't.

I can't wait to hear how Obama's America can be neatly encapsulated with reference to the thoughts and beliefs of a young apprentice gumbo chef from New Orleans.Who writes the rubbish questions for surveys like this?

If I were shown the first statement; "Governments having access to personal telephone and internet information is necessary to protect society from terrorist or criminal actions" I'd agree - suspect someone based on reasonable grounds, get a legally-constituted warrant, and knock yourself out.

If I were shown the second statement; "Governments are increasingly using the argument about terrorism to collect and store personal data and information, and this is a dangerous direction for society" I'd also agree - initially noting that the first statement related to ACCESS and the second to STORAGE (and so we're not discussing the same thing in an either/or format), my thoughts about storage can even relate to the ineffectiveness of the retention process and this could conceivably even fold back into the first statement in terms of criminality or terrorism gaining benefit from the action of storage. It's ridiculously easy to answer "yes" to both and remain entirely consistent - or so I'd have thought.

I'm truly at a loss to understand who believed constructing opinion gathering in this cock-eyed format was a sensible idea.My point is that when I went to school 41% plus 44% plus 15% added up to 100% - which implies (or so I'd have thought) that each respondent was only permitted to tick ONE of the three available boxes.

Assuming the authors actually can be sufficiently bothered to read the responses to their work, I'm surmising that if I'm incorrect with this THEY'LL bother to advise me - not someone like yourself who had no part in the exercise.

I hope that helps.I honestly have no idea what the point of your post is.

The matter is a very simple one to resolve - was (as I contend) the first part of this survey one where respondents could only tick ONE box? Yes/No? Simples.

If "Yes", then as Common Sense has so helpfully (and accidentally - it's tough when you set yourself to have a fight with someone and then make the mistake of validating what they said) already pointed out in support of my own contention, they "...are not dependent on each other" and this is a rubbish way to run a survey.

Which, if I'm not mistaken, was where I came in...

Nice, easy, and no need for any autobiographical information you may feel you wish to share.I see.

So, yes, it was an only-tick-one-box question; yes, this is an extremely silly way to do it; yes, it invalidates any conclusions that may be drawn from it; and yes, I was right to bring it up.

Thank you.

And as far as "taking part" goes, you're already on my radar as someone who lurks in the shadows just dying to pick a fight with me. You've tried it several times now, and the results aren't terribly impressive. When it comes to gratuitous advice about making contributions to these pages, you may wish to try your theories out on yourself first.Am I the only one who glimpsed that photo and thought for a brief second it was a scene out of Star Trek: The Next Generation just before the transporter operator sends them back to their home planets?

And as far as the topic goes, judging by the looks on the respective faces either (a) Putin has blown-off into Abbott's space, (b) Abbott has had a wee on Putin's back, or (c) in an explosion of bilateral decision-making they've done both at the same time.

Way more mature than all this silly shirtfront nonsense.I guess even an "international development expert" suffers from relevance deprivation syndrome once in a while, and feels the need to construct reams of speculative rubbish masquerading as "analysis".

For the record, I listened to Robert Fisk last night on Lateline (at least he actually goes there, talks to people, and doesn't appear to be pushing any agenda), and his take on events (admittedly Syrian-focussed) makes way more intelligent reading (cut-and-pasted from last night's transcript);

"But I think you've got to realise that much of the area that ISIS holds is desert and there's no oil underneath most of that desert. And you can't do much with sand. I suspect what will happen is that Syria will regain its major cities, including Raqqa, which is the ISIS capital inside Syria. Even the pilots of my aircraft wouldn't fly over it; they were worried about missiles, of course. But what will happen is that there will continue to be a guerrilla war in desert areas and that could go on for years. But Syria, I do not think is going to fall apart, not at all"

As far as red flags go, we could probably have done with one attached to this article. I do appreciate there's a lot to be gained by hyping this up, but perhaps that sort of thing is best left to desperate politicians.Not having ready access to a microscope, it's always pleasing when the activities in an incredibly small - but no doubt interesting pond to those few handfuls of organisms swimming around in it - are filmed and displayed up on a big screen for those of us with failing eyesight to look at.

It does, however, at the end of the day still remain a small pond. I'm extremely happy for those who enjoy wading through it finding innumerable debating points and things to get excited about - God knows we already have enough people just sitting in a vegetative state wasting their time, anything that allows time wasting to accrue health benefits is to be applauded.

Fascinating to see this article paired with another elsewhere on the expanse and majesty of the Universe. I suppose we all need to be reminded occasionally that inconsequence is either (a) an evolved trait following the Big Bang (pun sort-of intended I suppose) or else (b) a product of God's creativity, depending on where you sit on questions of theism obviously. I thank Jane Gilmore for providing some useful counterbalance to these weird notions that the Universe is all about useful things.If puritanical wowserism is now wedded to paternalistic statism as you say, just how exactly did this abomination get past the uber-vigilant, sanctity-of-personal-unions, defender-of-white-bread-values Cory Bernardi without his knowledge?

And, perhaps more to the point, has anyone been collating all the subsequent incidences of bestiality to prove he was right after all?Two brief points;

1) No pretence is involved - it really IS inconsequential.

2) Do you live so disconnected from day-to-day reality that this rubbish automatically upgrades to "...a life or death issue" for you to start waving your arms about in a sweaty panic? Really? This is ONE candidate who MAY possibly pick up a seat blathering about an issue which has NO traction outside the parallel dimensions she lives in. Even if she wins, where exactly is the groundswell of enthusiasm in the world of legislation making that says this is an issue beyond a few patrons of a Richmond tofu shop?

Perhaps you may wish to research the history of Green "success" in state lower houses. There's a very good example from over in Western Australia about the (brief) Member for Fremantle whose main achievement was to slip into bed with a man who sniffed chairs. The idea that this garbage is going to make you spill your short white in a burst of fear and trepidation is ludicrous - in case you haven't noticed, CREATING legislation is not their strongest suit.As a (platonic) lover of Brian Cox AND an owner of a read (although how well understood is another matter) copy of "A Brief History of Time" AND a believer that "Galaxy Quest" is perhaps the finest "sci-fi" movie ever made (humour, pathos, tenderness and lines which start "By Grabthar's Hammer..." - what's not to love?), I do fear Tim Dean has strayed a bit off course with this particular piece. Some of us do actually possess the power of multilingualism when matters above the troposphere are being discussed.

What is "out there" is indeed truly amazing, and if people spent a bit more time appreciating the scope of the experiment we seem to be living in they might find answers to questions like "What's the meaning of life?" a bit easier to deal with, and simultaneously reacquaint themselves with the importance of the wondrous in living it. That said, I see no conceivable way we'll ever get to touch any of it - "exploration" has morphed over time from going to places we couldn't previously see and touching them to now being able to see places far off in the distance we'll never be able to touch, and I'm not sure humanity has worked this out yet (which is a shame, because there are big consequences associated with this new paradigm).

Tim Dean appears to have trouble accepting that some sort of Hollywood fluff cuts corners and so undermines something serious. That's an argument which might cut some ice for a movie like "Titanic", where there is a "known event" and historical truth is being in some way manipulated. I doubt it applies when the ability to get to where any "known event" could ever be enacted is as much fantasy as the filmed fantasy of it that's being screened.Russia would appear to be a country badly in need of some thinking time. Geographically, it shares reasonably close proximity to Europe, China, and North America - but apparently feels sullen towards all of them. It has a population of about 150 million (2% of the world total) - which puts it just below Nigeria and Bangladesh on the league table, and just above Japan and Mexico. Sharing a certain similarity with a strain of Australian thinking, it confuses physical size with importance (made even more laughable, because at least Australia is surrounded by nothingness on three sides, and it's only when we bother to look at the map to our north (a rare event I must say) that we have any chance of regaining a grip on reality - Russia has delusions of isolation that no cropped map can support).

It may very well be the case that "Russia wants to be seen as a Great Power", but those days have been and gone - the trick now is to learn from people like the British as to how to deal with loss of past prestige and still keep your sense of humour. Having a sense of humour to begin with would, I guess, be a big help in kicking the whole process off.

The fact that the word "China" appears in this article once whilst "West" or "Western" appears almost two dozen times suggests to me Matthew Davies might just be missing where the action is in attempting to paint a big picture that conforms to his own preconceptions of what is and isn't important."The puzzle is even deeper because we have lots of evidence that suggests the return on investment from lobbying is enormous"

Really?

There's also "lots of evidence" that gambling at the racetrack is a successful pastime - you just have to look for those people jumping up and down and waving their betting slip in the air after the race has been run. What makes this "evidence" easy to spot is that these people certainly stand out in the crowd when most of those present aren't jumping up and down and waving betting slips in the air. Having read the links to this "evidence" what I saw was TWO examples, in an American system which uses "earmarks" and other such scandalous rubbish, with a massive budget (more dough for the taking, more interest in it - simple enough to comprehend) which throws money every which-way, and no counting of the other people at the racetrack who aren't doing any jumping up and down. I would humbly suggest Chris Berg review his dictionary definition of "evidence" if he has desires to be taken seriously.

That said, I didn't read this article as being about lobbyists at all - they are just the corporate ISIS dragged in front of the cameras to frighten the audience. The core of the piece seems to be found in the buried-away sentence; "The more a government does, the more opportunities are presented for rent-seeking" - it appears as if Chris Berg has decided it's time to do another spot of libertarianism spruiking.

The argument involved is a neat variation along the line of; 'If you stop having barbeques in summer, you'll stop attracting flies to yourself'. To the gullible, I suppose this is appealing logic - personally, I'd find a way to tax the flies (and these flies - unlike the ones at your barbie - come with ABNs) to pay for the fly-spray to keep them away. But that's just me I suppose.

So, I guess I'll sit back now and watch all the trained animals fall out of the woodwork to tell us how beneficial "small government" is for the health and wellbeing of all. Let the by-the-nose leading begin..."The puzzle is even deeper because we have lots of evidence that suggests the return on investment from lobbying is enormous"

Really?

There's also "lots of evidence" that gambling at the racetrack is a successful pastime - you just have to look for those people jumping up and down and waving their betting slip in the air after the race has been run. What makes this "evidence" easy to spot is that these people certainly stand out in the crowd when most of those present aren't jumping up and down and waving betting slips in the air. Having read the links to this "evidence" what I saw was TWO examples, in an American system which uses "earmarks" and other such scandalous rubbish, with a massive budget (more dough for the taking, more interest in it - simple enough to comprehend) which throws money every which-way, and no counting of the other people at the racetrack who aren't doing any jumping up and down. I would humbly suggest Chris Berg review his dictionary definition of "evidence" if he has desires to be taken seriously.

That said, I didn't read this article as being about lobbyists at all - they are just the corporate ISIS dragged in front of the cameras to frighten the audience. The core of the piece seems to be found in the buried-away sentence; "The more a government does, the more opportunities are presented for rent-seeking" - it appears as if Chris Berg has decided it's time to do another spot of libertarianism spruiking.

The argument involved is a neat variation along the line of; 'If you stop having barbeques in summer, you'll stop attracting flies to yourself'. To the gullible, I suppose this is appealing logic - personally, I'd find a way to tax the flies (and these flies - unlike the ones at your barbie - come with ABNs) to pay for the fly-spray to keep them away. But that's just me I suppose.

So, I guess I'll sit back now and watch all the trained animals fall out of the woodwork to tell us how beneficial "small government" is for the health and wellbeing of all. Let the by-the-nose leading begin...Perhaps we could break with tradition on this one at the signing, and we each keep our own folders and just swap the signatories instead - an early, positive example of the free trade that's supposed to flow from the deal I must say, although we'd probably have to throw in a set of steak knives and a K-Mart gift voucher to balance the deal up.

The bloke on the right in the photo seems worth a try, and him being Chinese should make local press conferences just that little bit easier to follow, never mind less embarrassing.

I'd normally be suggesting we went the whole hog and did the double by farming out Bill Shorten as well, but when it comes to Opposition Leaders the Chinese really don't have anything to trade.Possibly Peter. It does beg the question as to who would be obliged to supply the steak knives and K-Mart voucher should such a potential trade be organised though.I quite agree.

Thank God we were spared that sort of childish rubbish during the years 2007-13.As a truly committed right-winger I'm surprised you didn't also point out that it put an end to the evil scourge that is people smuggling - although I suppose seeing that the undocumented illegals who were risking their lives in leaky tunnels back then rather than joining the orderly queue at Checkpoint Charlie were white and nominally Christian, I guess they don't count as being part of the narrative.Your dad's name wasn't "Nikki" and he didn't live in Melbourne in the early 60s and do labouring work for the MMBW did he Caffeterria? If so, there was an old picture (now long lost) of him holding me as a baby at my childhood suburban home he and my dad built (those were the days, to be sure).

I'm in full agreement with the comment about the abrupt turn-around on the question of right-wing attitudes to communism. Now they just can't get pen to paper quick enough to get their hands on some of their cash. Thank God there are still home grown leftists here to snarl at otherwise they'd be at a total loss as to what to do with their otherwise boundless energy towards all things collective and nominally socialist."...presumably east Germans in their Skodas and Ladas, heading west - horns tooting, lights flashing, arms waving"

Whilst probably East Germans, they were more likely to be Stasi informers, border guards and other assorted apparatchiks fleeing the expected mob who were driving those particular brands. The regular East Germans would have been the ones in the Trabants parked on the side of the road with he hood up. I think Peter Ryan may just have missed a really good story by not pulling over the Skoda and Lada drivers for a chat.I'm talking about the ones who had managed to exchange a few bananas for a lift home from a Trabant owner rather than walk. The early days when the DDR functioned as the DBR.Just so I'm clear on this one; you dress up sow's ears?

I'm guessing then that you also make purses out of mutton in your spare time.

FTA on the way, and the new ideas for the value-adding onto farm produce are really starting to tumble out of the woodwork.Just so I'm clear on this one; you dress up sow's ears?

I'm guessing then that you also make purses out of mutton in your spare time.

FTA on the way, and the new ideas for the value-adding onto farm produce are really starting to tumble out of the woodwork.You may be a trifle hard on the lovers of Hobbesian language Charles.

Personally, any man who can write "...it is many times with a fraudulent design that men stick their corrupt doctrine with the cloves of other men's wit" is a man who I consider worthy of reverence and repetition.

As Laurence van der Post so eloquently put it in The Heart of the Hunter; "We do not speak of Umkulunkulu any longer. His praise names are forgotten. People now talk only of things that are useful to them."You inadvertently raise a very pertinent point. Whilst precious little real daylight exists between the major parties these days, the significant difference lies in the way they acknowledge their own.

The Liberals have a Prime Minister of 16 years standing in Robert Menzies, yet they appear too embarrassed to even introduce him into a conversation or debate today - probably because his policies on taxing, spending, and the significance he placed on having a strong and involved government makes them physically sick (now that the liberals have left and the conservatives run the show). Liberal Prime Ministers from Gough's time (Holt, Gorton, McMahon) are no-shows any time a Liberal of today wishes to spruik their party's greatness - and in the case of the last one on that list I can certainly understand why. Malcolm Fraser bested Gough, and yet in the midst of kicking Whitlam in the guts since his death the dragon-slayer's name is masked by sullen silence - he cops an even worse fate than the ones they just ignore, he is actively hated.

I remain fascinated by those who drop by here to spruik Liberal ideology and Liberal deeds - because the one thing they never do is spruik Liberal history. To them, until the ascension of John Howard (I've concentrated on their leaders who made PM - there's also the whole entire pantheon of Opposition Leaders who also now don't even figure in what should be a rich historical narrative) there was no Liberal Party - it simply doesn't exist. And this man, someone who I'd rate as a reasonably effective PM (it tails off the longer he went on) and who is the alpha and the omega of Liberal history ultimately got rolled by a former ABC journalist led by a goofy nerd who was destined to a spectacular flame-out of his own. When it comes to sticky ends, that was surely one of the most embarrassing a rock upon which mythology is built could come to.

I do think Labor mythology frequently goes over the top. However, those who disagree have something tangible to aim at. Those of the other stripe have a pathetically bare cupboard of their own with which to fight back with mythology that supports their version of events.Seeing as the organisations in question pose a clear and present danger to the security and stability of the nation, I presume their metadata is currently being collected, collated, and scrutinised.

No? How very surprising.There's something terribly refreshing about a situation where the woman is looking for some action and the man is the one with the headache.

I trust all those tiresome feminist-based writers who regularly drop by to entertain us with their overwrought tragedies at least have the good grace to acknowledge real change when next they put fingers to keyboard.

I accept here are limits to how far this can be taken - all keeping Clive barefoot and pregnantly-paused in the kitchen is going to achieve is ending up with a kitchen devoid of anything in it to cook, and the very real danger of an overweight, barefoot man sleeping on the floor and presenting a serious problem as a potential tripping hazard.I was interested enough by this article to do some quick research into the New Zealand news and information market. As well as a different set of priorities for the national broadcaster (a side topic all on its own), the newspaper industry is also structured differently (a starting point is "List of print media in New Zealand" via Wikipedia - you can link in directly from there). One sentence particularly caught my eye;

"Ownership of New Zealand newspapers is dominated by Fairfax New Zealand and APN News &amp; Media, with Fairfax having 48.6% of the daily newspaper circulation"

Experienced readers will no doubt notice the absence of a certain organisation quite familiar to Australians in this sphere. I'd venture one possible scenario that it's much, much easier to have intelligent, sensible thought processes in both the general public and their elected representatives if you limit the number of platforms for disgruntled, corrosive, agenda-driven ratbags to yell from. Just a thought.As a male (and a crusty old one at that), I'm always cheered when Clementine Ford and friends wax lyrical about the insidious, all-pervasive power of the Y-chromosome. And having been one for quite a while now, and having long come to the conclusion that most of the humans I know who are similarly bejewelled as I am are - in some way, shape, or form - mere village idiots who do a moderately convincing impersonation of a bipedal mammal when operating at their best, it is always pleasing to hear those watching from outside the sand-pit having an altogether rosier view of our collective abilities.

I appreciate the notion of a co-ordinated, male global conspiracy is a sexy idea - I'm just not sure those who hold it realise that men who at other times are berated for "not talking", "not verbalising their feelings", "always keeping things to themselves", "not even aware of how I'm feeling", "too interested in drinking with your mates", "obsessed with boy's toys", "never taking me seriously", and "just not listening" might somehow lack the necessary savvy and ruthless, devilishly sinister intent to pull it off.

Of course, if this global conspiracy of brothers is as unreal as my own research leads me to believe it is, then the only option left would be to assume women may - in some strange way - be being white-anted from within. And that would REALLY spoil the narrative I'm guessing.

I hope it doesn't turn out to be the case - there's something rather jolly about being considered a member of a ruling elite, no matter how undeserved you might feel it is.As someone who brings an alternative viewpoint to this site most days of the week, I'm pretty sure I'd already worked out what the article was thank you Dove.

Seeing as my alternative viewpoint is an alternative viewpoint to the alternative viewpoint, I trust you'll also "stick to the mainstream" and not bother to trouble yourself with further comment about what does or doesn't challenge me (unless, of course, you know more about me than I do myself)?

You may also wish to refine your thinking regarding the difference between "the brake of criticism" and "the accelerator of cynicism"."Like a Kimberley tide, it floods in and can recede just as quickly"

A delightfully apt analogy. As anyone fortunate enough to see the power, sheer speed, and majesty of Kimberley tidal movements can tell you, unlike the more flaccid examples of the phenomenon in places like Sydney and Melbourne, those ones have a fair few crocodiles floating in with all the water as well.

And, thanks to the joys of globally-warmed water temperatures (and yes, I do acknowledge that deniers will tell you it's all a worldwide conspiracy masterminded by shadowy cabals and those hell bent on enslaving humanity), more and more of those crocodiles are starting to take their holidays further south down the coast now."I find it somewhat scary that a prominent Financial journalist, ex stockbroker and financial advisor has only just discovered algorithms. What analytical methods has Alan been using all these years?"

Excellent question. I suspect he's mostly adopted the standard methods employed by the "industry" of examining the entrails of sacrificed small animals when an air of faux stability permeates the room, and switches to following any stampede either entering or exiting a door when there's any form of electricity in the air. It isn't necessary to utilise algorithms for that - simple instruction from a moderately lucid herd animal combined with a few lessons in critical thinking from any moss or lichen willing to part with its knowledge pretty much gives you the tools to do the job.

Algorithms for our so-called financial wizards are merely analogous to putting trousers on clowns - doing it makes them look smarter, and supplies them with more gravitas than their own unaided efforts would otherwise produce."There's no shortage of mature debate in this country around the significant issues that confront us socially and economically"

When this article is eventually electronically archived for posterity it may be necessary to detach the comments section immediately below it in order that it not be misinterpreted by some future "Time Team" excavators as being a satirical piece.It's been a very lean time for this nation's Gough-haters recently.

I suspect if this sort of thing keeps up, the tipping point into permanent madness may be just around the corner.

Personally, I'm hoping a bid to have Parliament House re-named the 'E.G. Whitlam Meeting Hall for Comrades' might just do the trick in that regard.

Congratulations (and thanks) to Noel Pearson for a wonderful speech."What legacy will he leave?"

Far shorter memorial services one would suspect (although, to be fair, there may need to be a spot of 'me-tooism' even about that given the two who preceded him - probably ultimately a joint bipartisan legacy like Howard's frequently unsung role in the 80s as an Opposition Leader supporting the government of the day).I'm badly torn on this one.

On the one hand, and in light of the recent gibbering on this matter by Brandis, Abbott et al, I'm happy to know there's at least one person in front of the microphones possessing a sufficient level of basic intelligence and an understanding of the topic to be able to complete an answer without coming across as a blithering imbecile. That is to be applauded, not sneered at.

On the other hand, I'm deeply troubled to learn that "I'm afraid that's an operational matter, and I won't be commenting on anything to do with operations" has sadly gone out of fashion just when it was starting to kick off as an answering strategy. I feel deeply for Scott Morrison and his team of trained performers who put a great deal of time and effort into developing the technique only to have it now trashed by lesser mortals.For an older person, this is a truly fascinating and instructive glimpse into the phenomenon which is the modern mind. I suspect I'm not alone in sitting here reading it and wondering "Why is this here?" or "Why are you telling me this?"

I knew an old woman several decades ago who had a most unusual ability to conduct a conversation (more of a monologue really) in a linear fashion as she moved into contact with successive, different people without recourse to any sort of scene-setting or re-capping for the unfortunate new "conversation partner" as to how or why we were at the point we were (it was literally a case of one person she was talking at saying "I'm sorry, I have to go over there now", leave, and she'd simply turn to whoever was closest and just carry on from that point - an astounding thing to be part of). Reading Ruby Hamad today may not have proved very useful intellectually, but I'm way more open to the idea of reincarnation than I was even 24 hours ago.

In the study and practice of self-absorbtion many strive but few truly succeed - I believe Ruby here today may have written her magnum opus thesis and be royally rewarded with her post-doc with this outstanding effort. It is a wonderful melange of people I've never heard about, things I couldn't care less about, marvellous left-field surprises that just appear out of nowhere, and all wrapped up in a spicy tortilla. I just loved it.

I feel desperately sorry for those poor people who were handed a nice, easy article on Gough and batons and legacies to ease into and drop a favourite rant or a stirring defence, and are then faced with something where their fingers hover over the keyboard but can't actually make it onto the keys because they aren't sure why this article is here and whether perhaps they're actually reading someone else's mail by mistake.

The modern mind, as it descends into ever tightening circles of irrelevance where those things of moment for it become ever more cloudy to those watching from outside the cage, has a strange allure for those trained in the old-school practices of inclusion and coherency. I'm truly thankful to be given this small chance to see the future. It makes the realisation that I'm not going to be living that long that I'll ever be a part of it a source of tremendous relief. Very well done.You show yourself to be already well schooled in the vagaries of insanity in all its myriad forms to successfully transform yourself into a worthy, well-adapted old person when your time eventually arrives Young Grasshopper.

Others may be haggling over where Gough's baton goes, but you'll be more than welcome to mine when I'm not using it anymore.The graphs are there because;

1) Some people like finding out things and showing them to others.

2) Some people like seeing what someone else has found out.

3) It saves some time and effort for people who like to say "Well, you've made that claim - show me the figures that prove it. I bet you can't".

4) Some people think having facts around is just a sort-of nice thing to have, and leads to a warm and fuzzy feeling. Part of that feeling is knowing those who struggle to communicate in terms of facts will be hating it.

5) Considering the amount of material which is pumped out without recourse to fact, it tends to make the article more noticed. In a world where getting to the top of the Google list is the name of the game, having a product that arrests attention by its novelty is no bad thing.

6) Some people who don't like how the author has extrapolated the known facts to support an argument they can't stomach will always welcome having a source of supplied information that they can interpret another way to slap them down. It's a variation on petards and hoisting I suppose.

7) Even if you don't have the faintest idea (a) what you're talking about, or (b) what the author is talking about, having graphs you can click on to change the picture gives people something to do and makes them feel there's something here even for them. In a world where some people are feeling more isolated and excluded than ever before it is one small, quite touching way to show compassion to those less fortunate than yourself.Being old enough to remember when this sort of activity was performed by two women with names like Doris or Madge, over a back fence, both with freshly blue-rinsed hair in curlers and covered by a hairnet, probably with a fag in the mouths of each, I welcome the resuscitation of 50s urban "pop culture" in a format accessible to the next generation.

I have often wondered how inconsequential people wasting their time rabbiting on about inconsequential things would find a user-friendly place in the daunting new paradigm. Now I know.

I'm sure the episode about how Mavis at number 58's youngest boy might be "...well, a bit too fond of playing with girls - if you catch my meaning..." and how many empty sherry bottles Shirley at number 27 puts in her rubbish bin each week ("she wraps them in newspaper so they don't make a noise when the garbos empty the bin into the truck you know") will be most entertaining.

I've seen the future, and it's banal.I know people who have caused deaths through dangerous driving have been sent to do community service in morgues and trauma wards so they can see for themselves what price stupidity can extract, so maybe it's time any horses who died on the day were placed at the exit gates to tracks (not just dumped on the ground, but housed in an enclosure which at least gave them some sort of dignity - if such a term is indeed the right one) and everyone there couldn't avoid having to look at them as they left - that seems to me to be a fair way to allow racegoers to decide for themselves whether their day's entertainment was worth the price of admission, and neatly circumvents the inevitable chant of "nannyism" which follows such events. That death, after all, is part of what happened because they were there to empower it to occur in the first place.If you can get backing for the project I'd suggest "Tar Wars" as a working title and a plot that runs thus;

Young, craving-for-adventure Lackey Factdenier teams up with Oh Be Buggered With Tomorrow (a wealthy recluse who, for a party trick, waves his hand in front of people's faces and says "These are not the facts you're looking for"), Smokebaccy (a harmless, lovable recreational hobby peddler who has been part of the gang for some time) and Stoop So Low (a roguish, part-pirate, part renegade, part Financial Planner who can be found drinking most afternoons in Wall Street bars using other people's cash). Using "the force" - usually wads of $100 bills in briefcases, but also an electronic version that transfers power across entire continents in seconds using nothing more than a BSB - they rescue Princess Gullibility from the Earth Science Empire's Death Star, "Reality 101", where she's been successfully constrained by a brutal regime of logic, fact, and previously effective common sense, and manage to return her to the people. In a thrilling finale we learn of a jaw-dropping secret when Oh Be, Smokey and Stoop confide to young Factdenier; "We are ALL mothers, Lackey".

Rated IO (Infants Only - not recommended for anyone over the mental age of 3 without confirmed access to a sedative)"Where is Team Australia when you really need it?"

Actually, its full and correct title is Team Australia: World Palookas, and you'll find it in an alleyway behind a bar yelling "Lisa" on most afternoons if you're really interested. Don't wear your best shoes when you go.I would have assumed any possible housing bubble would be facing extreme competition for available impetus by the upswing of the new industry of thought bubble creation in recent times.

In fact, if we could gather together all the respective bubble generators and locate them under the ocean a few hundred metres off shore we also stand the realistic chance of dealing with our shark problem as well.I like your style of thinking Mongo. Of course, if we could store the generators of both thought AND housing bubbles inside the sharks we could actually go one better.

I appreciate the sharks may not initially be overly enthused by this low worth, high tripe, overly-aerated dietary switch, but a first home bubble eater's grant will probably do the trick.It would appear to be a case of "Yes we can" being thumped into submission by "No we can't". Sounds familiar.

Much scholarly work has gone into trying to find an individual catastrophic event that led to the decline of once-great civilisations of the past. I suspect it was something way more prosaic like the populace no longer caring what trash was turning up on their ballot stones to be adjudicated upon. In fact, it wouldn't surprise me to discover that in amongst dinosaur remains we'll one day locate a speaker's chair.

It's probably also a convenient time to mention that the U.S. Capitol bears a striking resemblance to the Hindenburg in an extreme nose-up orientation. You'd have to hope it isn't full of explosive gas, wouldn't you?We live in an era of delicious irony. It would seem that very soon metadata will be kept for longer than the people who are legislating to keep it, and that budgetary "forward estimates" are being prepared by people whose own forward estimate is somewhat bleaker than the numbers they're generating.

Still, through all this we will be entertained by political zealots of both stripes who festoon these pages with their childish 'us versus them' garbage based around their infantile belief system that "Australians voted for us". It makes little sense trying to explain to people who are beyond salvation, but you "left" and "right" warriors who come here daily (you know who you are) are, collectively, the saddest gathering of self-delusional idiots anyone could be lucky enough to assemble to laugh at. Four years ago "Victorians wanted a strong Liberal government because Labor are hopeless". In a few weeks it'll probably be "Victorians wanted a strong Labor government because the Liberals are hopeless". Actually, Australians wouldn't mind if you all just shut up, because the consensus seems to be you're both hopeless."But is the commercial enterprise of space tourism in the same league of public goodness as, say, travel by car and boat, train or plane?"

Absolutely. Once it's up-and-running, fine gentlewomen like Lauren Rosewarne will be able to pay to park in orbit and have an unobstructed view of many more disappointing, annoying men at any one time than they currently can AND have the corresponding joy of increasing their life-sustaining dissatisfaction many times over.

It's a rare win-win actually, because the men back down here won't have to put up with their rubbish, and (as I believe they say) in space no-one can hear you moan.Oh! for the days when I could make sex last three-and-a-bit minutes PW.

These days there's very little cheering coming down the home straight, whips are a complete waste of time and probably just a distraction, and any stewards with strong enough stomachs to watch definitely wouldn't be calling for a photo.

At least Christmas still has the option of those brightly-coloured crackers and all the sound-and-fury they supply. The joke they come with also strangely fits the overall narrative I'm weaving.Wow. And here was me thinking it was simply an individual's comment in the SMH.

And, seeing as I've just dared to laugh at a flag-waver for the "right", I guess that makes me "left" for the purposes of the argument today - so I'd better get my position out there quickly before I get it written for me by people who clearly know me better than I do myself;

For what it's worth, despite having more than a passing similarity to the great Stan Laurel, the clown in question is way more Oliver Hardy ("Well, here's another nice mess you've gotten me into!") than jihadi.

Foolhardy is, of course, simply taken as read.

Although I'm unsure if that's sufficiently "left" to be allowed to pass ungibbered-at.Okay, if that's what you'd like; "It's a lack of humour".

Glad to have helped.

Stay chilled."Unfortunately, governments have been unable to keep their spending in line with revenue (hence the wall to wall debt and deficits across the nation)"

I was under the illusion that was being fixed by wall-to-wall "competent economic managers" (although the South Australians still appear to be dragging the chain, and I understands Victorians are about to undergo a bout of weak-kneed, snivelling backsliding).

Surely the compelling argument people like you should be peddling is that as long as we keep your pals' hands on the respective tillers and consign the vandals into a pit of perpetual insignificance, then it isn't necessary to "reform" anything?

Or is it simply too hard to do that and keep a straight face at the same time?An excellent point ShevermIN. Once upon a time "reforms" were things we did to update decades or centuries-old practices like ending slavery, allowing women to vote, and the like. It appears that as we've allegedly become smarter, 21st century uber-humans we now need to "reform" things that were supposedly "right" a matter of mere milliseconds ago.

Something for those who bemoan "reform fatigue" to ponder in their more reflective moments I suspect - there would appear to be a limit to how many times people are prepared to tolerate reforming reforms in one lifetime.

There might need to be a bit of reform around the whole question of people spruiking reform.Good to hear. With all the stuff that's on the go which we're told needs doing to repair the Labor catastrophe we clearly don't want to waste time, money, and effort reforming things that aren't struggling. If we can get that message through to Canberra, then hopefully we can put this nonsense quickly to bed - and I for one certainly hope the Prime Minister heeds your wise words.

Mature debate concluded Prime Minister. Many thanks for your incisive input Alfie.I'm happy to do my bit for a mature debate about the GST by drawing on the wisdom and restraint of days past to guide my hand;

We don't have a revenue problem, we have a spending problem. Changing the GST means $100 roasts and the end of Whyalla as we know it. The GST is a toxic tax.

There. Glad I could help. Three-sentence slogans are always the best I find.We're "in agreement"?

Really?

I fear you may have confused me suggesting people stick to the same script they sang from before they garnered their votes (no revenue crisis, just a spending crisis) correlates in any way with lunatic libertarian ideas.

I'm certainly not "in agreement" with the drivel you've just spouted, and I doubt very much you'll be "in agreement" when I re-state my previously published position that this country is full of socialists in one form or another (although about 50% of them deny they own the t-shirt and prefer to spend most of their time fooling themselves), this garbage about "cutting spending" is a myth that keeps infants warm and fuzzy when they're huddled around their cauldrons, and the best thing to do is to stop the crazy raving and just find ways to return revenue levels to the long-term percentage and give up on all this neo-con guff people like you have filled your heads with.

Find me 50% of the population that hasn't/doesn't use the line "the government should DO something" as frequently as they have hot dinners and I'll happily re-jig my beliefs.

I won't be expecting to hear back from you any time soon.I blame Bob Hawke for this. Rather than stuffing around showing faux concern for children, what he really should have pledged was that 'No lawyer will live in intellectual poverty by the year 2014'.

If we're getting things right today, it's probably fair to point out that '...the right who tell us constantly that the market isn't useless, isn't evil and definitely not worse are now suddenly market sceptics when it comes to putting a tax on air' is another way of writing your first paragraph.

Answers may indeed be simple - it all depends upon how flimsy your thinking on the topic is. If being a proponent of an ETS = "leftie", then I'm afraid there are now insufficient beds on the planet for the reds to hide under. John Howard will, I have no doubt, certainly be surprised to hear of his new political categorisation.

There will also need to be a significant amount of history book re-writing now that "Governments don't create true markets..." has hit the streets as the latest piece of revisionism - no doubt those great European trading nations in the middle of last millennium would have been fascinated to learn it was actually the merchants who were running the whole thing and not the King or Queen (who merely thought they were). I presume at some point we'll hear that free traders developed the monarchy to benefit the society rather than the other way around.

A final point - people who are enraged when their political opponents are "wasting money" and merely "disappointed" when their own side do probably aren't the most useful people to be commenting on money being wasted in the first place. They're actually more expert in the mechanics of breath-wasting than they are about anything fiscal.I appreciate you setting me straight on that one Jones Crusher - I had erroneously been thinking along the lines of it being intellectual flatulence. Pockets full of wry may be useful for some forms of analysis, but diagnosing severe medical conditions clearly isn't one of them. I gracefully (and gratefully) stand corrected.Excellent article. Very well done to Lydia Hales for writing it.Actually Pavo, I'm more troubled/fascinated by the line of thinking that someone has a "right" to demand a conversation and the receiving party has an obligation to honour that "right". I suspect these are the type of people who would change channels when some politician they despised was speaking and then be not at all surprised when a voice came out of the television and said  "Excuse me, I was talking to you".

As a male closer to my telegram from the Queen than I am to the time when I thought the allure of female nipples could be covered simply by their wonderful ability to supply unlimited nutrition on demand, I suppose my crusty, codgerish demographic should imply I tolerate this sort of rubbish - I don't. It's poor form, it's harassment, and the infants concerned should buy a dog if they're seriously looking for something that might appreciate being talked at.You'll love yesterday's "No case made" and "Four ETS reports and counting" articles then - I was in sparkling form for those.

Many thanks for your kind words.So, I take it that supporters of the Western Bulldogs, the Western Force, and the Western Sydney Wanderers have even more crimes to answer for then?

For the record, it's hard to have a clash of civilisations if only one of the prospective combatants justifies that tag.

Even if it is frayed around the edges a bit like it is at present.Call me a bit old-fashioned, but it's equivalent in my mind to what goes on between brothers - in private they are more than happy to beat each other to a pulp, but God help anyone else from outside the circle who tries it on.

I'm not even going to begin to quibble with the (overwrought) litany you've assembled - at another time I'm more than happy to spend long hours telling you just what a bloody mess we're in on multiple fronts - trust me on that one. However, when collections of screaming, unwashed imbeciles and deadbeat no-hopers from some trashy, second-rate alternative want to engage me on the same topic and think they're entitled to command my attention, I'll readily zone out.

My view - you're perfectly at liberty to think differently.Interesting thesis. I'd suggest putting it to the next refugee you meet from Iran (to take just one example of "the West" not figuring large in any Machiavellian, cashed-up, bomb-dropping manner for quite a while now).

I'll freely admit I didn't "get" the sign-off line - they are the "messengers" of people who want to "grow oranges and make baklava"? Clearly they've hired the wrong courier firm if that's the case."...a real opportunity has been missed to reform our counterterrorism framework in a balanced and thoughtful way"

Obviously. You'd need balanced and thoughtful people to be able to pull something like that off. The cupboard is, unfortunately, somewhat bare in that department.

And on the question of "the biggest bonfire of regulations in our country's history" goes, I suspect it will make a good subject for a film entitled "The bonfire of the inanities".

You'd have to guess something has gone horribly wrong when Australians are more concerned about the alleged cure than they are of the disease.I live happily every day with all sorts of outcomes - right down to people wanting to pick fights on the flimsiest of pretexts. A surprising number of the "general population" (from an extraordinarily broad range of political homes I might add) appear to be showing concern about this uber-overkill rubbish - you may find it's the enthusiastic (possibly paid) political spruikers like yourself who might need to consider a bit of mainstreaming.

Of course, you may possibly disagree.As instruction on how to win over the common people, the man in question could learn a thing or two from your good self Clownfish - in scanning the pack I saw your effort straight away and came to drink. In a sea of verbosity about a topic barely registering on my interest meter, any man who can quote Gandalf stands out from afar. I have no doubt if you'd referred to him as 'Mahatma Gandalf' you could also ensnare those pompous types who might actually have a little less book learning than they believe they have as well as the humbler types like myself.

Regardless, I sincerely applaud your effort, and look forward to seeing a range of appropriate Orc quotes from you peppering any future discussion about the political divide in this country. Well done.I'll throw a hopelessly optimistic, totally impractical, and never-likely-to-even-be-considered thought into the ring for people to play with;

How about a grand compact where EVERY one of the existing occupants of a seat in Canberra decides it may be time to accept the "will of the people" (who, according to every piece of research I've seen, regard the existing parliament as dysfunctional) and all stand down at the next election? We can open up the nominations to an entirely fresh bunch who - whilst lacking experience in how the show works (and a short-term price will undoubtedly be paid for this) - at least arrive as empty vessels without all of the accumulated toxic baggage which, as Barrie Cassidy explains, is going to linger well into the future.

Personally, I think it might be one of the better unworkably romantic ideas going around at the moment. I'll accept discussing the alternative, non-nuclear option of introducing limits on how many times an individual can stand for a seat (once for the Senate, twice for the HoR?) if this is a bit too radical to handle.

Comments welcome.I don't know how many times this needs explaining before people understand it. Metadata is like the gum on the flap of an envelope. When you lick it the fact that the flap is stuck down is useful information, but that doesn't tell you where the tongue was when the flap was sealed. Likewise the postmark on the stamp - stamps come as self-adhesive attachments these days and so no gum-related concerns need apply, and choosing one with a picture of some Royals on it in no way compromises any thoughts you may have on something like the Republic or any other personal information, but the fact that it has a postmark on it can help eliminate people who communicate by letter in any enquiries where those terror suspects who only use Twitter are being sought. The postcode with the return address that's on the letter is not metadata, but the street address itself might be if the letters can be re-arranged to spell the name of any foodstuff known to have been eaten by Osama bin Laden. The postman is definitely NOT metadata - he's just late and has a bad habit of occasionally including next-door's letters in with yours. This is not considered terrorist-related at this stage, but authorities are monitoring the situation.

And as far as "...your personal freedoms are disappearing more rapidly than George Brandis's credibility" goes, any author worth his salt would know that one of those is coming off a very low base, and shouldn't be used as a meaningful example.This is farcical. Australia should not be going it alone on producing reports. There are nations with far greater capacity to produce reports that aren't producing this many. There is no proof that man-made reports are responsible for anything meaningful. People who tell you they do are part of a global conspiracy to enslave us into reading reports. Reports have always happened - the number we're getting now is just part of a natural variability in the climate of report-wanting. I know for a fact that Queen Anne called for a report during the Little Ice Age because I read it in a leaked e-mail once - and you can see just how pointless that effort was. Reports cost jobs and wreck our economy - people reading them are not spending money somewhere else.

There. I think that probably sums it up for those who can't get day release from whatever institution they're in, but who would require that sensibly thought-out, well-balanced rebuttals be given to this socialist drivel Howard and the ABC are peddling.We needed someone to bring humour to a thread that was fast becoming way too serious Stirrer. Thank you.It was bound in hide and inscribed on vellum. Unless those cows involved were deducted from the totals then a report like that is not worth the cattle it's written on. My point regarding the meaningfulness of man-made reports remains valid.Most definitely I realise that, and I'm guessing around about now you're realising you perhaps maybe should have checked the dictionary definition of "wry" before hitting "Post comment".

If it gives you any succour, you're far from being the first. Welcome.I quite agree Brian - there's a further scandalous example of this practice with another article today masquerading behind seemingly innocent, trite rubbish about spin bowling in order to white-ant our government in some way I haven't really figured out yet. These people are despicable, and I applaud your calling-out of this filth wherever and whenever you find it."That's what happens when population outgrows available resources"

It's also what happens when a sense of entitlement and self-absorption outgrows existing resources.

Whilst fully understanding your point, I feel you may have gone one step beyond where you needed to go - this isn't a mechanistic issue of simple supply and demand, it's a psychological issue revolving around the tension between the wants of the individual and the needs of the collective. A great "social" experiment is being enacted around us where the primacy of the individual is assuming unprecedented dominance - outcomes like those Jonathon Green is writing about are the inevitable by-product of this.

Where we go from here depends upon the extent to which individuals wish to commit to the concept of "community" - and I suspect it's not going to shift from its current setting until it's finally broken. If then.How in God's name exactly did organisations like the Business Council of Australia and the Institute of Public Affairs get roped into a discussion like this?????

Please explain. On second thoughts, don't.I accept that the sample is small, skewed, and the responses have been edited and paraphrased, but the stand-out feature of the selection that was deemed worthy by Alan Kohler for display was that not one involved any reference to the child concerned.

I suppose that in our fast-paced world, anything that gives people greater choice in how to become self-absorbed can't be considered too extreme.

Perhaps in their quieter moments the people pondering this one might like to examine the premise that "you having children" is not the only way the event will ultimately be viewed - somebody else yet to appear on the stage and in calculations will one day be looking at it as a case of "them having you". I'm not at all convinced this side of the equation has been well (if at all) thought through.The moral of the story would appear to be that if you want sensible, considered improvements with something, you don't put someone prone to yapping, to sneering, and to annoying histrionics in charge of the process and expect success. I would have thought whatever university Christopher Pyne attended would have taught that. Perhaps he missed that tutorial.

Confrontational, aggressive, and/or dogmatic ministers and leaders can play a useful part in public life (although sensitive portfolios like education and health probably aren't the best fit), but as a general rule they need to possess the physical dimensions and presence of a Jack Lang rather than Liberace.I look forward to watching AFL next season when the umpires start awarding '50 metre taxpayer-subsidised kicks' for infringements.

And I say that of my own taxpayer-subsidised will.

Feel taxpayer-subsidised to disagree.Wonderfully put. I see now why Andrew Bolt is so insistent on this taxpayer-subsidised speech thingy he's always banging-on about. It's quite good really.*** Pedantry Alert ***

"This could explain some of the heightened angst around the marooned Hockey federal budget, anchored with the $7 Medicare co-payment..."

Things that are marooned don't - as a matter of definition - require anchoring, although the nautical references do neatly encapsulate the idea that this is one boat a broadly bipartisan majority of Australians have no problem with seeing be towed back out to sea.

I was hoping to link this observation to a Gilligan's Island motif but couldn't because unfortunately there aren't enough women in Cabinet to fill both the Ginger and Mary-Ann roles (and unlike some less charitable people, I wouldn't even dream of re-assigning one of the males present as possessing a sufficient-enough likeness to fill in).I quite agree with the author. The government (through its own stupidity by continually denying revenue was an issue when in opposition) is already stuck with as much albatross around their necks as the string they're using can support with this one - and they'll be wearing it all the way to polling day. Labor and the Greens are being incredibly silly by not waving it through - I have no idea what other "damage" they believe they're holding out for.

I wouldn't waste my time asking for a thoughtful answer to that question from Milne, but I have seen faint glimmers in recent times that suggested Shorten may have been smarter than this. Perhaps not."As any good businessman will tell you, relying on marketing a single product primarily to just one country, Indonesia, and a developing country at that, is risky"

Actually, if that good businessman owned a bucket, a spade, and a rather large plot of land in the Pilbara, he wouldn't be telling you that at all. That's because that particular good businessman (who is also marketing a single product to a developing country - and we can argue all day about definitions of "develop" I suppose) is a professional, and he spends a good deal of time and effort greasing the wheels and checking all the moving parts on his holistic conveyor belt. Even then, the best laid plans of mice, men, and miners are oft to go astray, but you couldn't possibly say he wasn't on top of his game in the very dicey world of flogging stuff from one jurisdiction to another. So, providing the personnel is of a sufficiently high standard, it's true to say just about anything is possible.

I appreciate the people behind this class action have convinced themselves whatever angst has befallen them is someone else's fault. I'm somewhat more sceptical of that belief."The farmers never had any responsibility"

At least you certainly got one bit right before you signed off, even if the rest is rubbish."Most posters" - really?

Most posters that I'm reading here can actually count and do percentages. Most posters here would, I'm sure, laugh themselves silly at being labelled an "urban left anthropomorphist" and wonder what sort of comic books the user took his "insults" from. Most posters here wouldn't even think of assuming you'd "never even been near" Joe Ludwig, and hence should forego any comment about him. Most posters here probably have plenty negative to say about the "urban greenie vote", Christine Milne, loonies, and the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd era, but have enough balance in their lives that they can deal with the issue at hand in a rational manner without recourse to childishness.

Most posters here would probably also write that cats endanger rural wildlife rather than urban wildlife - and they'd be able to do that because they were thinking clearly at the time of doing it rather than foaming their way through a tired, pre-arranged agenda and misplacing their words.

And, I think most posters here would probably agree with these sentiments.I think most posters would have thoroughly enjoyed reading that.I certainly hope they've got more strings to their bow than just "...against all departmental advice and was unreasonable in the circumstances", otherwise I suspect it's going to be a very short court case.

Like it or not, government ministers are not bound by advice - if they were we wouldn't need to have them anyway, and could get away with just collating all the advice we got our hands on and run with that as the basis for all decisions. In this case the minister would be required to show his decision took that advice into consideration, but that it didn't address all the factors he was privy to knowing about and was not a product of malice or other unsavouriness - beyond that I'd suggest he has no case to answer. When we give these people that sort of power we can't whinge when they use it.

It might also help the plaintiffs to remember that this country went to war a decade ago based on lies and misinformation - pushing the line that "advice" trumps everything else isn't going to go anywhere in my opinion. If that example's not to your taste, there's always the current government's intransigence on climate versus the amount of advice they've received, but choose not to act on in a meaningful manner.

On the question of "unreasonableness" - well, where do you start?

I'm also at a loss to know why you sue the government - surely these producers are selling into a market system where someone has signed-off on the standards in place at the destination. I'm assuming it's not the federal government, otherwise THAT would make a far easier prosecuting logic than the "advice" and "unreasonableness" lines they're peddling.

Finally, it might also help in their quieter moments to think about what a different situation they would face if they'd put more effort into getting the processed meat option up and running (and yes, I know the arguments about lack of refrigeration in Indonesia, cultural practices, blah, blah - however if you just give up on that then what happened becomes a possible outcome you need to allow for) - a value-added product and full control over the slaughtering may very well have cost them money in the short term, but it wouldn't have resulted in the strife they're in now.Interesting, but I'm not sure I'm buying the thesis. When I was this punk's age I have no doubt peer pressure made me do things I probably shouldn't have, but the 70s equivalent of running around in a desert with an assault rifle and yelling "Ella Fitzgerald!" (or whatever it is) wouldn't have been one of them.

I think Senator Leyonhjelm may have said all that needs saying on this matter, and far more clearly and succinctly than the author I might add.Quite true. However, if we by-passed cricket altogether and got them on the rookie lists for AFL and NRL there's a good chance they'd spend so much time getting wasted they couldn't even find the Middle East on a map.Your father signed up to fight for his country. Bozo the Clown here signed up to hurl insults and threats at his country. I'm truly surprised you couldn't spot the difference.

I also have no idea what your father (and apologies if he's deceased, but it was you who brought him into the conversation) would make of what he did back then having some sort of equivalence with the case in question. Probably not much if my (deceased) father is anything to go by.Ruby Hamad neglects to consider a form-and-function approach in her gender analysis. If you have a government that breaks things (promises, trust, etc.), pushes and pulls things (business agendas, boats, etc.), dismantles things (a manufacturing industry, CSIRO, etc.), and attacks things (personal privacy, young people needing the dole, etc.) all whilst not bothering to stop and ask directions along the way, I'm struggling to see how the ratio of males to females could be any more perfect. If you set yourself a boofy agenda, it's clear to me you choose the boofiest workforce to achieve it.

There's also probably an element of misguided chivalry in it as well - no old-fashioned man would consider it right-and-proper that a woman should be present at a kicking.I think we might be fast approaching the time when those dogs and cats you speak of should seriously consider scraping together a deposit and publishing a set of policies.

Like you, I'm not afraid to give any candidate standing on a "Stop the fleas" platform a chance to prove if they've got what it takes. What we've choosing over recent years really doesn't seem to be working, and a three-letter candidate probably can't be any worse than a three-word slogan I suppose.Very pertinent points, but you did overlook a substantial fifth column here in this country who put on Islamic dress and take pictures of themselves and then send them to other people in a staggeringly effective display of civil disobedience. I'm presuming they consider bringing down the whole rotten facade from within to be a valid liberation technique too you know.A devilishly clever foray into the world of modern asymmetric warfare to be sure. I assume part 2 of the plan involves translating it into Arabic, printing hundreds of copies, and pushing them out of the back of a plane over ISIS-held territory. By the time they've finished reading them you'd have to guess that they'd have forgotten what they were fighting about in the first place, or else had starved to death in the attempt.

Never let it be said, as some of the more loud-mouthed critics have, that this is a government that has abandoned its responsibilities to protect Australian jobs - the lawyering industry is most certainly receiving some very generous industry assistance packages directed its way."Why is Abbott considering a GST hike?" asks the headline.

I assume it comes down to a misunderstanding - one of his inner sanctum advisors has clearly told him "We've looked at the polling numbers, and the electorate wants you to take a hike"; and I suppose if you're in a rush and not really paying attention then this is the sort of thing that can happen.

For those already buying the cardboard and handles (GST applicable to both by the way) for their placards and wondering what to scrawl on them, I should also point out that "GST" in big capitals is perfectly structured to spell out "Get Stuffed Tony".Judging by the ongoing hopeless state of the books, a Treasurer who is missing in action, and an explosion in the number of rapid-fire, non-core, governmental side issues and gaffes on parade a little over a year into the plan, I'm guessing it can always be chalked-up as "another Labor failure" then?"One of the most effective means to decrease the distance between in and out-groups is to interact with people in perceived out-groups"

I very much look forward to hearing how Brad Elphinstone manages to get on when interacting with the gentlemen (a term used somewhat ironically) in the accompanying photograph.

I'm sure the "travelling to restricted countries" rule could be waived in this particular case. I'm afraid how he gets there from the parallel universe he seems to be writing from is a bit beyond my pay grade though.Factually incorrect. The caboose in question didn't "run off the rails" in the end - it was removed from service on the Sydney line by having its railway shed allocated to another piece of rolling stock.

So, as far as them apples go, it was more a case of him being served finger food.

Out of interest, what exactly is "a stable period of growth" anyway?"The Australian's foreign editor, Greg Sheridan, in a series of graceless articles immediately after Whitlam's death..."

It's unusual to see an accomplished wordsmith like Mungo MacCallum fall into the trap of using an unnecessary adjective like "graceless" when describing the recent canon of Whitlam stories oozing out of News Limited. Anyone who has ever read Sheridan's stuff for a dare, for a bet, or simply as punishment for some random misdemeanour could have told him the word was extraneous.The present system works just fine.

Low-calibre people who stumble into positions of authority are human beings with needs too you know, and the safety net that diversionary blame-shifting provides is analogous to the social security safety net most of us I'm guessing are glad is there for us when we're down on our uppers.

Others may rail against this excessive nannying if they like, but I'll be damned if I'm going to go down the path of kicking poll bludgers.In light of the fact of both sides now having had the chance to screw things up whether New South Wales can be officially re-classified as a "Failed State", and whether this permits the dropping of humanitarian bombs on it just to put the inhabitants there out of their misery.

If this continues we'll have desperate people putting their lives at risk in cars with leaky exhaust pipes trying to cross the Murray or Tweed, and I'll be damned if I can seriously believe we have enough spare tow-trucks available to deal with this sort of thing - never mind the poignant fact that Scott Morrison already has plenty on his plate running all government business, asking the Opposition's questions for them, and heckling himself and getting thrown out of the chamber for it. Sometimes you just need to give the man a break - he can't be doing everything all the time.A small clarification as to whether the trust Dante De Gori is interested in getting his hands on has an upper-case "t" or a lower-case "t" would be useful.

From memory, it's his member's uncanny abilities at being able to suck the former dry which is causing dramas with the latter.

For the record, he can find my name and details on the "I think a Financial Planners' Register is a joke" Register. Thus, with me as a registered commenter he can therefore be soundly assured this advice I'm giving him is right out of the top drawer."Lachlan Murdoch has added his voice to the growing chorus of opposition to section 35P of the ASIO Act - it's just a shame he didn't speak out before the law was passed"

Maybe he did. Anyone familiar with that rag can tell you they are somewhat selective about which missives are allowed through to reflect "the will of the people". Lachie probably just got one of their censors who has even more trouble reading than the others do.

Now, that would be ironic."There was a warning sign in the 1972 election result - a swing of only 2.6 per cent..."

(actually, I think it was 2.5%, but I'll let that pass)

Seeing as this was coming off of the back of a Labor 2PP of 50.2% at the 1969 election (which they didn't win because the outer-Melbourne electorates didn't swing then, but only did 3 years later - 1972 was, in effect, the second part of what happened everywhere else in 1969), I'm struggling to mesh Mike Steketee's comments with the reality that I can recall. I'm not sure ending the night in 1972 with a 2PP of 52.7% would suggest anyone was thinking about "warning signs" (they certainly weren't in 2013 when the winning figure was 53.5% - I can't recall anyone saying 'Watch out Tony, you're only 0.8% more popular than Gough was - and we all know how badly THAT turned out')

Also interesting to note that 50.2% bought you 47.2% of the seats in 1969, 52.7% bought you 53.6% of the seats in 1972, and now 53.5% buys you 60.0% in 2013. Perhaps all this fluff about Gough being the initiator of, and evil mastermind behind, such things as inflation may possibly have some legs to it after all. You certainly had to work longer and harder back then if you were a member of the working classes and were looking for somewhere to rest your bum."But now China has hit the wall"

At last. I've been growing a bit tired since Gough's death hearing about all the same, old, dredged-up, tired things he's been personally responsible for buggering up.

It may be late in the day, but I thank Alan Kohler for providing some fresh ammunition for those starting to run out of puff. An elephant stamp and star (gold, and on a red background, obviously) for the first political warrior to re-write "If Gough hadn't have gone to China in 1971 they wouldn't be in strife now" in a way that combines incoherence with mildly irrational venom. In the event of a tie, the winner we be the one with the most spelling mistakes....and then I go and stuff it up by typing "we" instead of "will".

There is a God; a lover of irony, and I'm a HUGE fan of his work."A woman's right to choose should include a myriad things"

I quite agree (except for the grammar, but we live in innovative times I suppose). Correctly choosing whether or not to waste her own time and that of anyone genuinely seeking interesting reading by writing fatuous rubbish about Renee Someone-or-other should be one of them.

I was under the impression that petty, self-indulgent fluff such as this normally gets addressed by any woman who's interested in it during the whole "going for coffee" ritual which remains a mystery to men today just as much as it always has since before coffee was first brought to the West.Wrong. Any all-XY chromosomal communal beer consumption I've ever been a part of doesn't involve "empathy", "someone I can talk to", "support", or "someone who understands what I'm going through". We just drink beer. It's a "guy thing" - or at least it is if you're doing it properly.

What happens over "a coffee" is, and will remain, an area of the broader human psyche to which no man worth his salt can either understand or expect to gain admittance to. A life without mysteries is a life not worth leading - I don't know who first said that, but you can be certain it wasn't a male who was drinking beer with his mates at the time.I fully support any calling out of creeping senorship. This is an English-speaking country, and any Joses, Miquels, Ramons or Juans that aren't prepared to embrace "Mr" like everybody else can leave.

I'm off now to get a t-shirt printed up to just that effect.Yesterday I read about a political party accused of appropriating a still-warm dead body to use for their own unsavoury purposes.

I have a sneaking suspicion I've just read an individual pulling the same stunt today.

In his rush to start pushing his barrow John Blaxland seems to have missed a bit, so I'll add it for him;

"Our deepest condolences go out to all impacted by this tragedy".

A very disappointing article indeed.It's interesting to note that when a discussion of Australia's economic position fires up, one of the more predictable pieces of tub-thumping that ensues is that wages in Australia are a burdensome inconvenience, and that we're "globally uncompetitive". At the same time, our housing is "globally uncompetitive", and this is apparently a wonderful thing. The people who demand globally uncompetitive wages to live in a globally uncompetitive house (which they have to do to acquire those globally uncompetitive wages I might add) are berated and told they need to pull their heads in, because they're messing the whole thing up with their unbridled avarice.

Warwick Smith may wish to spend less time analysing the mutterings of alleged experts on matters economic, and instead lay this little scenario out in front of them and ask them to square the circle. Clearly, you'd only do that if you (a) had a sense of humour, and (b) got perverse pleasure by watching people dribbling on themselves.I thank you for dropping by to square the circle Peter. As regards (a) and (b) above, I wasn't disappointed.

See you next time.For what it's worth, I'd struggle to find this many words to say about Barry Humphries. The man hasn't been "funny" for several decades now, and when you could possibly argue that he was, it wasn't by being funny as Barry Humphries. He's entitled to any opinions he wants to hold, but I can't say they warrant this degree of analysis.

It might have been better if Ben Pobjie had simply gone to Woolies, bought a t-shirt carrying the logo "If you don't like it, Come", and mailed it off to him in England."That's another common theme from the Left - electoral stupidity"

From memory, it also got a bit of an airing back in 2007 when John Howard lost not only government, but also his own seat.

I presume at some time in the future it's going to be desirable for you to celebrate the life and works of that particular someone, and if you want to use the "well, he was rubbish because he got turfed out" routine with Whitlam I should point out you've just written the script for what is going to be served up (with interest) about Howard by your equally annoying sparring partners.

And, just to give you something else to think about, Whitlam was ejected after the early 70s oil shocks which re-arranged a number of parliaments all around the world - Howard was dumped in the bin at a time the economy was sailing smoothly (towards an iceberg admittedly) and re-election was a simple matter of just turning up to collect the votes.

Be a bit careful about constructing convenient partisan narratives - it would be tragic, I'm sure, for you to have to one day hear that Howard was 'so useless he got re-elected once when he didn't even carry the popular vote, a second time when the population was scared witless about planes flying into buildings and whipped into a frenzy about a few brown people on boats, and a third time when he was facing-off against an unelectable madman. The Australian people thought that little of him that they gave him a compliant Senate and he stuffed it up, and it took nothing more than a snivelling invertebrate hated by his own party to put him on his backside'. That's the thing about going hell-for-leather when you reckon the times suit the narrative - there'll be another time when you'd have wished you never kicked the ball into play in the first place.Just a brief note for the record;

Seeing as we haven't yet established whether ASIO might have deliberately leaked these e-mails as part of an operational matter dealing in questions of national security, then everyone here may possibly be setting themselves up for a lengthy jail term by imperilling an ongoing investigation with their unguarded comments.

That's the problem with living in a country which throws common sense out the window for a political headline about nothing more than a few handfuls of mad nutters - you just never can tell where the consequences are going to wash up."...Hughes' defining characteristic seems to be his tendency to be dropped from, or left out of, Australian sides"

Actually, Hughes' defining characteristic is his tendency NOT to be dropped square of, or behind, the wicket by sides playing against Australia.

And, as far as players who score a motza of runs at first-class level being automatic picks for the national team, the writer may wish to enlighten himself by Googling the name "David Ogilvie" and "Queensland cricketer" before going down this sadly well-worn, asinine path again.

A "curious case"? Well, if it is one, it's more about what the batsman didn't do in the daytime rather than what the dog didn't do in the night-time.Well, I suppose if you can work out a diabolically clever way to encourage opposing teams to keep bowling every ball full and into his pads, then I suppose I should be big enough to admit that when that eventually comes to pass I'll be prepared to change my point of view.On the off chance that it's simply a case of you not knowing the right question to get an "in" into how the game works, there's always the option of trying "Who's winning?" Gerard.

Whilst admittedly the most annoying question anyone watching test cricket ever has to field (especially on days 1, 2, and 3), it does open you up a multi-minute detailed explanation that takes into account such hitherto unfathomable features as the likely advantage of the second new ball, the chances for spin on day 4, a fascinating yet mind-blowing dissertation on whether they should even be considering enforcing the follow-on, and whether or not the tail is going to wag. Even if you can just remember a fraction of the apparent weirdness you're hearing and are able to regurgitate that back again during the next match it won't take very long before you have enough snippets to be viewed as having "wicket cred" (it's like street cred, only you get 40 minutes off for lunch and another 20 for tea).

I'd normally suggest "maybe pitching outside leg" as being a 100% slam-dunk thing to intone if you're watching when an LBW shout is made, but if it's a right-hand off-spin bowler bowling his stock delivery around the wicket to a right-handed batsman, then that's only going to make you look silly."...was met with ire from some Labor MPs who accused the party of "body snatching" and "appropriating a leader's death" for their own political ends"

Two quick points;

1) If a political party is really that concerned about the defiling of dead bodies, they should stop trying to add to the total of naturally-occurring ones with all the hobby-killings of their own. It's hard to call for restraint in others when you can't seem to stop filling the body bags yourself.

2) The day "...appropriating a leader's death for their own political ends" goes out of fashion is the day I "out" myself as the gunman behind the grassy knoll. Some people should really attempt to make even the most elemental of intelligent thought before opening their mouths.During the same period of the Whitlam government the U.S. unemployment rate doubled from about 4% to 8%, and the inflation figure quadrupled from about 3% to about 12% (feel free to Google it).

I'm sure that Gough (knowing what a fine sense of his own importance and reach he felt he had) would be delighted to learn that he's now being credited with being able to bring down even the mightiest of the world's economies by presence and rhetorical flourish alone.

Warped senses of success I can live with; its warped senses of history that rankle.Actually, I think you'll find I'm not in denial about anything. I merely quoted economic figures from another country at a comparable time. It's YOU who takes that simple display of fact-supplying, starts muttering about the '75 result (which I wasn't quibbling with - let alone mentioning, just in case you missed it), and who then proceeds to launch off on a strange, rambling diversion into matters military - which neither I nor the person who opened the thread were talking about.

It's true that I neglected to mention a warped sense of understanding what's actually being discussed as also being on my "rankle list", so I suppose I only have myself to blame.The junk food and tobacco industries may need to rethink who they choose in future to spruik for them - today's writer appears to have broken the golden rule of not making it bleedingly obvious what the hidden agenda is.

Instead, doing a far more positive piece suggesting that shipping over a packet of fags and a McHappy Meal to every Ebola sufferer ('okay, it won't cure them, but it will cheer them up') could possibly be just as transparent, but at least you can justify having a picture of the produce as part of the visuals coming with the article. People who are serious about being in the business of running off-radar agendas should know this without needing to be told.Around about the same time you started your tenure as President of the Royal Society for the Advancement of Analytical Reading, Critical Thinking and Logic I'd suspect.I suspect he may have called our Prime Minister aside and said; "Comrade, I went to a good deal of trouble to get you a free education. Try not to waste it"He also had the courage (or hubris, or self-belief, or self-delusion - I'm afraid that's one for the political zealots with a barrow to push to decide on. I've already typed my choice) to stay as Opposition Leader and contest another election to try and win back those who he'd lost in 1975. In varying ways Churchill, Menzies, Chifley, and even Howard during his long years in opposition all displayed this same degree of tenacity and fibre after a slap-down that is absolutely nowhere to be seen on the contemporary landscape. He will be missed, but he'll never be forgotten. Being considered in company like that will make sure of it.An article with so much depth and so much information about what went into public policy that when you hold it up alongside an era dominated by spur-of-the-moment thought bubbles you just want to weep for all that has been lost.

Any of those who drop by occasionally to berate us old people for a starry-eyed view of the past care to offer their spin on how we're "so much better off these days"? That would certainly be interesting.Wouldn't it perhaps be better for all concerned (you're certainly not doing yourself any favours here today by the way) if you saved up your ravings about the shortcomings of the current Labor Party and their revolving door of leaders for when they eventually pass away and blurt it all out then?

Forgive me for mentioning it, but we're here talking about Gough Whitlam today.

You may have indeed moved to Australia and think you've successfully assimilated, but you might want to take a leaf out of the books that others of your particular political stripe are generously displaying on this page and elsewhere, because you seem to be somewhat out-of-step with the vibe in this country today.As a born-and-bred Australian who was 16 at the time of his dismissal I'll try and give one possible reply to what is a very useful question Tory Boy.

Both metaphorically and physically, Gough was what you could call "larger than life". He had a presence, and everyone in the room - fervent admirer or bitter enemy (and the fact that there are so many of the latter still popping up today should tell you something of his reach) - KNEW he was there. That doesn't come along very often; in fact you could possibly argue that the major emotion when any modern "leader" walked into a room would be indifference.

When his memorial service happens you'll see the Prime Ministers who followed him; Fraser, Hawke, Keating, and Howard. As this is a non-partisan post I feel free to say that all of them will, to a lesser degree, be seen as carrying some sort of grace, and gravitas, and ability to engender respect. They will be people who - regardless of your political leanings - most level-headed Australians will be able to say made a difference. Gough was the first of this "modern" (read post-Menzies) crop, and he made a huge difference to what was here waiting for you when you moved to Australia.

In contrast, I for one will be secretly hoping that no Prime Minister after Howard (of whatever stripe) bothers to turn up, because the fact of just how poorly we are now travelling as a nation will be laid achingly bare.

Gough had belief in himself (in massively overflowing bucketfuls I might add), but he CARED about something and that was blindingly obvious - to friend and foe alike. He didn't change the question to the one he wanted to answer; he opened up the throttles and went in at full speed. He knew his brief. He was passionate, not bloodless. He would have convened a focus group (had he ever known they existed) simply to mock them before chasing them out of the room with them in a foaming rage. He wanted to make a difference, and he did. Having someone in the room they hated perversely also helped the conservatives (although I doubt they'd ever admit it) - the party was a drifting, aimless, post-Menzies morass of indulgence before Gough gave them a path to modernity.

I'd describe my "outpouring" as not really grief, but rather sadness for something which has gone and won't return. Gough gave both lovers and haters focus, and sharpened the debate about where Australia should go next. By contrast, we live today in a wandering, aimless mess of bipartisan indifference. Gough came and went, but was noticed whilst he was here. If you think that is going to be replicated anytime from now onwards you have more faith in what's here today than I do.

I hope that helps in some way.Ah! The unintentional humour of the quibbling, qualifying political apparatchik attempting to eke out his daily quota of "wins".

My post concerned the QUALITY of the man - not his quantity. You can pray for as much "rational historical research" as you wish, no-one (in my opinion) is ever going to even remotely link the likes of Rudd, Gillard and Abbott (and whatever comes next - for quite a while at least) with Prime Ministers of the "old school" of which I've given Gough a very generous part in the pantheon.

Read the post again - I'm referring to the ability of the man to impress and to inspire (as I then go on to do with the Fraser-Howard continuum). "Rational historical research" can often very usefully re-arrange previously misunderstood or unknown material to supply a clearer picture, but it does precious little to rewrite the character of the participants. The slack-jawed, focus group-driven rubbish that's circulating today belong in an entirely separate chapter of the "Defining History" when it eventually gets written. The chapter will probably be titled "Decay: Or what happened next when the ones who should have just stayed on in second-tier roles advising the ones who could suddenly decided, in a burst of hubris, that they were just as good and could do the job on their own. A tragedy in multiple acts"Seeing as you've been good enough to introduce the word "silliness", we'll play with that concept for a while, shall we?

I do a post which pivots around (as Schadenfrueder below plainly "got") a clear divide between the times up to the end of Howard and what's happened since (i.e. 3 Prime Ministers over 4 incumbencies). You bolt out of the blue, as usual, to stick up for TWO of those 3 - your mates who I suspect you're paid to endorse. Of course, there's the small problem that if Rudd and Gillard are entitled to "the calm of rational historical research", so too is Abbott - in which case you'd better get yourself another hobby rather than infesting these pages as you do, because obviously what you're gibbering about here day after day will be swept away with the fullness of time anyway - because you're clearly "too close to the facts, and may often lose perspective" as you choose to put it.

Not content with just taking your mild 'licking' in private, you bounce back for another go and manage to insert into a short post "charismatic" (3 times) and "charisma" (also 3 times) as your simplistic, made-up substitute for all I had written, and think I'm just going to let you frame the agenda however you want to. Get real - an "F - Must Do Better" if ever I saw one.

Now, I know you like to hang around firing off what you believe to be useful contributions, but seeing as you joined in off-thread, have steadfastly remained so, may I just be permitted to thank you for your time and ask you to perhaps try somewhere else?I see Mathias Cormann more as an impersonator and quota enthusiast.

An impersonator, not as he might believe of Arnold Schwarzenegger, but of the last Labor administration. Like so many of that troupe, he (and a fair few of his mates from the PM down) feels compelled to make himself the story - and then bleat about it. Anyone familiar with the "lack of clear air" and "confused narrative" themes of the year 2010-13 will see eerie parallels here. Perhaps even with the sequel better than the original.


A quota enthusiast obviously, because no normal person after witnessing the high-impact, self-inflicted wreckage from earlier on in the week would think it necessary to check their schedule, realise they were overdue to make an idiot of themselves, and race into an over-saturated market just to keep their batting average on track. You suspect that George Brandis was being kept in the wings just in case no-one in the media picked up on the story and ran with it.

For people who spent six years complaining about not having the gig, you have to admit the whole circus looks increasingly like a dog who chases a car but has no idea what to do with it if it ever catches it."After all it's against their nature as free marketeers"

Actually, the alleged "nature" is in reality more like a fad with the modern-day Liberal Party. Darrin Barnett can Google terms like "Paid Parental Leave", "Private Health Insurance Rebate", "Government Funding of Private Schools", "Direct Action", or any one of countless other ones if he needs further information.

Like many packaged products these days, you need to check the "Serving Suggestion" label down in the bottom corner before getting too carried away with the picture on the box."...but it will lose many more from mainstream voters..."

Welcome to the fantasy world of the political insider trying to make a career out of spruiking.

For the benefit of Paula Matthewson, "mainstream voters" retract support from "mainstream parties" over "mainstream issues". Perhaps only in the furthest reaches of a disconnected-from-reality brain could an article like this be scraped together from whatever's been splashed on the floor and walls after last night's party. If "the politics of Ebola" is what's keeping the people who lavish us with such maturity as "girlie men" and "shirtfronting" awake at night in feverish excitement of an impending reversal of their fortunes, then I'd reckon Ebola is already here and leaping from office to office in a large white building high on a hill in Canberra. By my reckoning, if it is indeed drifting around the corridors that means "the politics of Ebola" is already a done-and-dusted, yesterday's news story.

I have no fundamental problem with partisans spilling their drivel in public - but they must seem to be trying to mount a genuine, serious attempt rather than laughable blurt like this.It's always intriguing to watch somebody elevated to power in a democratic system (where you can bet that usually half of your "subjects" didn't want you there in the first place) concentrate on excessive, effusive praise of the individual rather than sticking to praise of the country. By definition, you've just put yourself on a perpetual treadmill of rebuilding fences.

This sort of stuff works moderately well when the individual IS the country (read here the Saddam Husseins of the world) and are likely to be that way into the foreseeable future, but very dumb behaviour from people who should know better when it is not.

A classic case of trying too hard to patch over the obvious cracks elsewhere perhaps?Delving into a somewhat bulging pocket, I can find a few morsels to add to your thesis Cobber. As background to my thinking you can read my thoughts on this broad topic in the Lewis &amp; Woods Drum article "Don't mention the tax" (October 8, 12:28pm). Always nice when you have your say and then wait around for the commentariat to catch up.

I'm going to quibble with the idea that stability can be enacted, enforced, or engineered. Complex systems don't operate that way. Equilibrium is easily reached in any set of reactions, but comes about when both the forward and reverse components are progressing at the same speed - plenty is going on, but the nett effect when viewed from outside is that nothing is going on. I'd contend it isn't necessary to aim towards "stability", because that's where we're actually going without fully being aware of it - it's the natural outcome anyway.

What ensures this will come faster than we appreciate is that the "reaction" in question has already reached the outer walls of the beaker we're in, and has nowhere else to expand into. All previous economic growth spurts through history have relied on a vacuum (physical or comparative living standards) to grow into (think all-conquering empires that actually required something to conquer to get their economic leg-up).

There is also the issue of the disconnect between our supposed advancement versus the actual genetic change to underpin it - in short, there isn't any. We are genetically no different from the Dark Ages - we just fool ourselves we are with a thin and fragile veneer of learned characteristics and norms we think are lasting, permanent alterations. The capacity for reversion to type which has been largely suppressed and/or ignored in recent decades and hidden behind a paper-thin fa?ade.

The final point about "space" is that it allows anyone dissatisfied with their existence to re-invent themselves, thereby maintaining a positive trajectory. This no longer exists, and people are now faced with no option but to live with their past and having it known to everyone around them. Anyone who underestimates the effect this is going to have on the psyche needed for positivity and "growth" clearly isn't paying attention. Unlike much current political thinking at the global scale I'm not against the idea of "badlands" - by definition they create "goodlands" that get a psychological boost from knowing that. Now, we're on a path to encompass all the good and bad elements within the same tent (whilst somehow believing "bad elements" can somehow be unlearnt or re-educated), and yet fail to understand that this is going to turn the collective psyche very much inward. Recent developments suggest this process is well underway.

Your wish is already coming true - it isn't necessary to keep wishing for it. All we're haggling about now is the time-line.As an expression of your humanity and fundamental decency that statement does you credit.

As a contribution in a discussion about whether we need an old priest and a young priest to attend bank board meetings it's irrelevant.

Ivan Milat's mum loved him too, I'm sure. That's what parents do - and long may it remain so.Men, on the other hand, have it numerically easier;

(1) Trying their damnedest to look interested when women launch into yet another monologue about how difficult it all is.

Only one task admittedly, but the concentration involved and the mental difficulty experienced when you realise you've zoned-out for what was probably an important bit you're going to be quizzed on later - thus diverting attention away from what is currently being said in a vain effort to see if you can piece together what already has been said as a way of getting back on track - then realising that by doing that you're not hearing what's happening now in what you know in your heart is a fruitless attempt to retrieve what's already gone, and that this is just compounding the problem - and finally coming to the inevitable conclusion that you're buggered anyway, and just start laughing - which only makes it worse because she doesn't know all the mental gymnastics that have gone into the making of the laugh, and just thinks you're both mocking her and an uncaring bastard.

Which are both true statements, but not for the foolish reasons she's thinking. From such simple mistakes on a woman's part are long-lasting misunderstandings formed.

Never mind the quantity Ms Ford; feel the width."If Australia taking dramatic action on climate change is merely symbolic, what are we to make of our commitment to the fight against Islamic State forces?"

Excellent question. This whole nonsense can have a stop put to it cheaply and effectively by paying the largest emitters of terror to institute abatement measures. Taxing terror emitters with our efforts like we're doing costs jobs (Travel Agents offering sun, sand and jihad packages are going to the wall in droves), and if there's a town called "Whyalla" in Northern Iraq it's my guess it's cactus by now.

The place looks pretty barren, you hardly see a tree anywhere, they helpfully fire ordnance everywhere and thus excavate your tree holes for you, and one more army (even if it is a Green one) in the neighbourhood wouldn't even be noticed."Under such circumstances, there is only one way forward......Demand better tools"

Impossible.It may very well be "another way" in your mind, but it has nothing to do with what I was saying (I had thought one word was a succinct as you could possibly make something, but clearly I still have much to learn).

We as a nation are world-beating, above-our-weight-punching giants when it comes to political tool production. Nobbling our competitive global advantage by denying their talents is the moral equivalent of slapping a carbon tax on them.

"There will be no tool denigration under a comment thread I lead"Doubtless it'll never get to the page-eating stage, but Dr Dickson needs to keep in mind that consuming any of the ones towards the front does pose the potential risk of ingesting unclean animals, plague, or pestilence. I just mention it in light of current health scares and all that sort of thing. One of the ones towards the back that deals with loaves and fishes is not only a healthier theological choice; it's probably better balanced nutritionally as well.

And, by way of incentive if he does indeed want to have a nibble just for the fun of it, if he eats the page and it reappears back in the book after three days, I'll definitely be at his next sermon sitting in the front row.And here was me thinking it was effective only on tough stains that other brands fail to shift."The Jesuits are credited with first saying "give me a child until he is seven and I'll give you the man"."

Snappy as far as it goes I suppose, but give me an Australian Prime Minister at a press conference with seven journalists* and I'll give you a child.

It's at moments like these that the more thoughtful among us ponder the hypothetical question as to whether Mark Latham would have made a safer pair of hands.

* Actually, I couldn't find out how many journalists were at the presser, but I tend to adopt the wise and trusted adage of acting first and seeking forgiveness afterwards.Yep, never mind your daughters - now's the time to lock up both your taxi drivers and your walls. This could get ugly.If we can get a law onto the books that deals with aiding and abetting stupidity, then I have a fair idea of the first 220-odd names on the charge sheet.

I look forward to the sad, boring partisans who come here to tear each other's throats open to either stand together in defence of this idiocy or stand together in condemning it. Being then so close to each other - one way or the other - might give you a useful indication of what your breath smells like."Prayer, in its simplest form, is also a remedy for hubris and being narcissistic"

Incorrect. Prayer, in its simplest form, is an effective demonstration of hubris and narcissism. I thank Kevin Donnelly for laying this bare for all to appreciate.

Like all fine practitioners of matters religious, Dr Donnelly manages to confuse what happens to an individual with what happens in a broader sense - hence his reliance on the word "power". I have absolutely no doubt that the exercise of the inner self is an important component of humanity - it happens too universally to be otherwise. We live in a Universe of potentially such complexity that we are only now beginning to understand that the three dimensions we have considered pretty-much explained everything may, in fact, not really explain anything. What we are actually a "part" of isn't quite as clear-cut as it was even a generation ago, and it's probably fair to say that in the quest for answers science has merely travelled to the margins of the "known" world and begun mining a rich vein of seemingly unfathomable, unanswerable questions. Like Dr Donnelly, I have no problem in accepting there can be a g/God - where I differ from Dr Donnelly and friends is I have ABSOLUTELY no idea what it is. I don't need to invent it, I don't need to believe it has any association with me other than in the generalised sense of me being part of the whole, and I certainly don't have the audacity to think that I may control it rather than the other way around.

So, "power". Yes, as power for an individual I have no difficulty in agreeing without complaint. It "works" on any individual programmed for it to work on - I'd hardly expect otherwise. If you have decided that something exists I'm pretty sure you'll have no trouble finding it (to your own particular definition of what "finding" means). That is entirely logical. YOU knowing that it's there makes talking to it (and getting back what to you seems like a response) akin to a self-fulfilling prophecy.

Where the Donnelly's of this world go off the rails can be neatly encapsulated in that wonderful church intonation; "Let us pray" (with the emphasis on the US). Doing it makes a hard-wired individual feel good. Fair enough. Having multiple similarly hard-wired individuals all feeling individually good is NOT the same thing as thinking this takes the "power" you are under the (understandable) impression you're feeling and have that operate as a separate entity outside of your consciousness.

When more than one person starts praying about the same thing at the same time - and they think that's somehow "upping" the "power", that's when you get to see how an otherwise good idea goes tits-up.

It "works" for you Kevin - that makes it "effective" at a personal level, never "powerful&qIt seems God may have intervened at the end of this post - it is meant to conclude; "... at a personal level, never "powerful" at a generalised one.""But yes, we can only 'know' what we can comprehend, and if we could comprehend everything, known and unknown, then we would probably not be having this very interesting discussion"

Indeed - and we'd also be sliding dangerously close to unintentionally impersonating Don Rumsfeld.There certainly wouldn't be as many comments permitted to be published. I'm not sure that's the same thing.Sad to see that the IPA's Julie Novak has sold her investment in ludicrous raving to this Davidson chap. There's something almost unsavoury about that.

Then again, seeing that our Julie has now re-badged herself as "Mikayla" on the IPA website, I suppose getting out of investments is something they can speak to with confidence. I look forward to the new lad, Ben Berg, telling me all about it.Merely the politics of envy at work. Just because ANU can run a surplus, have money left over to decide where and when to invest, and don't need to blame all the problems of their own making on the Labor Party, that's no reason for the government to get so shirt(front)y.

There's also the marvellous bonus for the half-a-dozen or so delusional enthusiasts who, out of some sort of obsessive-compulsive disorder, still want to keep investing in an industry that's increasing production at a time of softening demand to snap up what they seem to think are bargains. This is charity of the highest order - and as Senator Brandis might put it; "Even zealots have a right to be irrational you know"It may help for future reference to understand that "making money" is actually a silly term - as a general rule it's a money transfer between parties. One gains it, one loses it. In light of the "six degrees of separation" theory I think you'll find EVERYONE has 'personally contributed' if you follow enough connections through enough nodes. As such, your throw-away final line becomes irrelevant.

It's probably also worth mentioning while we're on the subject of lapses in logic that individuals don't decide if they are "...entitled to a portion of their wealth"; governments decide that. If a government decides that way they have the backing of (usually) 50+ percent of voters prior to making the call, and will have their assumptions tested at regular intervals thereafter. Something to do with "democracy" I believe.That unemployed person you speak of contributes more than you realise. As part of a pool, he or she frightens the living daylights out of those with jobs from asking for what they think they're worth. As a consumer, he or she (according to what I've heard recently) single-handedly keeps the company that makes Cheezels afloat, and validates advertising expenditure on the morass that is daytime TV apparently by simply being the mainstay of the audience numbers. As a desperate individual, he or she ensures shonky "improvement" courses that promise a chance of regaining employment - but never deliver - remain the cash cows that they are. Seeing as the he's and she's in question are seemingly on a steady rise in numbers they also conveniently create employment for more statisticians to count them. You would be amazed how even the smallest cog in the wheel that is driving the conveyor belt of cash into the hands of a very comfortable elite can contribute if you really think about it.

Nice try, but, no - sorry.The second graphic makes a fundamental error by lumping "not much" and "nothing" together. By introducing "nothing" into the mix what you're saying you're interested in is the relative numbers in a yes/no position - with the no position (by definition) standing alone, and the yes position capable of being sub-divided into intensity of opinion. The "not much" section of the vote therefore belongs on the other side of the fence.

For a pair of writers pilloried weekly for their (obvious) left-wing allegiances, this is an unexpected morsel of comfort for the right to have two boiler-suited proles deliberately dropping the overall level of declared support for their position in order to make their dreaded enemies feel a bit better than the corrected numbers would actually show.

In the dark days of hand-on-throat partisanship and bitterness, it's a nice touch. I hope those who regularly berate our scribes will take the opportunity to thank them profusely for their compassion and mercy. Who said chivalry is dead?He's probably counting those who live in places like North Dakota, Iowa, Kansas etc. (it really depends on which "Most boring U.S. states" web-page you choose to take your prejudices from) in with the actual officially incarcerated ones as well.

Prisons, as indeed are most things, are what you choose to make them.Ideologues confuse the amount of time they've spent seething and babbling about their pet cause (without any meaningful change in their surroundings whilst they've been doing it) with the ongoing virtuousness and relevance of their efforts. It has always been thus, and always will.

If the Prime Minister thinks it's worthwhile re-visiting past windmill-tilting that gives him a buzz, then I guess that's really up to him. Personally, and in light of the likely trajectory of the Australian economy between now and his next flirtation with the ballot box, I'd be concentrating on more immediate concerns rather than hunting out all of the various legislation with their Section 18C's that keep him awake at night and huffing and puffing at them.

I'm sure any half-decent focus group or well-connected, well-remunerated insider consultancy outfit could tell him that. He's always welcome to ask if he'd like.Just taking the last two days for my inspiration, Chris Berg and Paula Matthewson are going to be absolutely devastated to find out that they're really card-carrying socialists in need of a damned good Royal Commission and some instruction on the words to The Internationale. Admittedly, if Chris were offered suitable funding for the switch he'd probably be able to rationalise it away to some sort of satisfaction, but I'm unsure whether Paula has the mental toughness to have what she'd think are her hard-won right-wing credentials torn up in this uncaring manner.

Brute.In response to a recent article I dug up some government-published information on the educational qualification distribution of parliament in order to highlight the absolute dearth of science qualifications among people making (stupid) decisions about science.

I'd be interested to know how many of the current crop have had any exposure to what is poorly encapsulated as "the creative arts". Can any of them play an instrument (note: "the fool" is NOT an obscure medieval musical device, despite the practitioner requiring a good deal of wind and tub-thumping to turn in a quality performance), can any of them do a sketch or even a rough daub (note: being able to draw a chalk outline around knifed leaders doesn't count), and can any of them knock up a bit of spellbinding dialogue and sing a chorus or two whilst dressed as a pirate or apothecary (note (especially to our Prime Minister): whilst repeating the same thing twice may technically qualify as rhyming poetry, it isn't a style which has had widespread success on stages and opera houses around the world)?

I fear we may have inadvertently selected the most narrowly-schooled and creatively barren individuals and put them in charge of deciding on things that they have no earthly chance of understanding. The scope for creativity which flows from this would logically seem destined to centre almost exclusively on the creativity to simply make a mess.I like your final sign-off. I suspect if you'd written it at the head of your comment you mightn't have opted to open with a variation of the "I am a left-handed stamp collector who likes eating my turnips with ice cream and combing my chest hair. They are left-handed stamp collectors; ergo they like eating their turnips with ice cream and combing their chest hair" approach to persuasive argument. I also assume that seeing as you've shared with us your love of strutting the boards as part of your accomplishments, that re-badging yourself as "Peter the lawyer and part-time singing pirate" would - perhaps from more than one angle - more adequately serve as a personal descriptor. I look forward to seeing it in print should you reply.

Away from the banter, the point about not needing to create art to appreciate it is valid, but not a counter to anything I was (albeit clumsily) suggesting. What IS important is to have exposure to it to understand its essence and value - with this being a necessary precursor to making any sensible decisions about it. Like your acquaintance Senator Brandis, I too know that Haydn wrote 104 symphonies and that Mozart's work is categorised using the Kochel numbering system. That hardly makes me a suitable person to be deciding on larger questions of perceived worth of a largely intangible entity for individuals or societies."Anything that requires government assistance is a drain on the economy"

Keep that thought and bring it out for an airing the next time farmers in a land of "...droughts and flooding rains..." apply for large wads of cash after being afflicted by "exceptional circumstances". (Interesting question really - how many centuries does it take before the normal ceases to be the exceptional?)

I think you'll find that the premise upon which you base your tirade (that recipients of federal or state government cash are mere wastrels) lacks any validity in this country - and always has.

I also take it that you personally receive no "government assistance" (in whatever form) to undertake your existence, otherwise you'd appear to be yelling and foaming at yourself. Not a good look I fear.Actually, what they're "across" isn't as clear-cut to me as it is to you.

I noted when reading the article that its historical context "ground zero" is rooted fairly firmly around Julia Gillard and the year 2008 - have a look at the number of references yourself. As such, I was very much taken by the piece as one of those "Another of Labor's stuff-ups" articles that the administration(s) between 2007-13 left such a rich vein of material to mine from. Bringing to our attention the base ineptitude with which this country has been managed is an incredibly worthwhile use of virtual newsprint, and the cracking pace the current circus has kept up after the heroic efforts of Rudd-Gillard-Rudd will ensure we have years of fresh material to work with well into the future.

However, anyone bothering to read page 4 of the Melbourne Declaration (the Preamble) will see the following; "In the 1989 Hobart Declaration and the 1999 Adelaide Declaration the State, Territory and Commonwealth Education Ministers committed to...". So far from being a Gillard-inspired stuff-up, I now learn that what Chris Berg is "across" is a joyous, fully bipartisan stuff-up with a long history of meaninglessness, and with Julia Gillard merely being the one holding the parcel when the music stopped after the requisite decade. I suspect if Christopher Pyne holds down his job for as long as he believes he will, then he'll be the one linked to the 2018 Dubbo Declaration when Chris Berg writes his next article in 2024.

People who are "across" things tend to know how to adequately set the scene for their exposition Paul - unless, of course, they have bigger fish to fry. Something to consider before the next time you take a commission from the IPA."The result may have been different if people had a better idea of how much the government spent on aid. Asked in a 2011 Lowy Institute poll what percentage of the budget they thought went to foreign aid, the average estimate of those surveyed was 16 per cent, with almost a third nominating 20 per cent or more. As to how much they believed should be spent on aid, the average was 12 per cent of the budget - almost 10 times the actual figure of 1.3 per cent"

A most delicious example which paradoxically shows the wisdom of cutting the foreign aid budget - it's pretty clear we need to divert our aid money domestically to Australians to help them learn something of what they're talking about before they start offering-up their half-arsed opinions about aid.

"For less than a cup of coffee you can supply Bruce and Mabel with enough fact to allow them to complete one whole survey without making total idiots of themselves. A regular donation will ensure entire streets can be filled with people who have some vague idea of what they're rabbiting about. This is Perc - he hasn't had any intellectual nutrition for years now, and survives on as little as 3 hours of 2GB a week. He is not alone. He needs your help. Call now"I commend Ben Pobjie for raising this important issue. My own personal experience involved being once lured into this cess-pit of so-called "art" to watch some filth called "Waiting for Godot" with Patrick Stewart in one of the leads. Several boring hours of seeing people lounging around on sofas watching daytime television and eating Cheezels rather than getting off their lazy arses and actually going out and finding Godot themselves put me in a very poor humour. A blatant propaganda piece glorifying dole bludging; they never filled in one application requesting information on Godot, made no telephone calls or even bothered to go down to Centrelink to check whether any Godot-related work was available, and were merely content to loaf around using my ticket money as some sort of hand-out to subsidise their life of sloth.

What made it even worse was that Stewart wasn't wearing a skivvy, and didn't once manage to get "Make it so" into his pathetically lazy dialogue. Why exactly do these people believe hard-working taxpayers take time out of their busy days to attend their "art" anyway?

The sooner this sort of morality-sapping rubbish is dealt with using a firm hand the better. Congratulations to the Western Australian Opera and Healthway for at least making a start. Well done to all involved.Just for fun I Googled "scombroid poisoning" together with "sardines" and came back with 9,870 results.

I suspect there would be at least someone, somewhere, who would be so shocked that Carmen was working in a processing plant where evil like this can flourish that they'd write a letter to an editor to get it stopped.

Never underestimate the latent power of sardine processing to offend and disgust. And don't even get me started on the horror that is bottled water production.

"The wild swings in employment data from the ABS have drawn scorn from the market..."

A motley collection of people who make their living from wild swings brought on by their own irrational, herd-driven actions have a problem with others lacking sufficient stability and rigour? Unbelievable.

Seasonally-adjusted pots, kettles, and 50 shades of blackness all swirl in my mind. I would have thought an unsubstantiated rumour about what the rate was sweeping its way around the trading floor would suffice for most practical purposes - it normally seems to work quite well for any other big decisions that they make.

And if the government have a problem with insufficient application to reliable data being displayed they always have the option of demanding 40 surveys a month be filled out and sent off - I do seem to recall this type of approach was viewed as meritorious not all that long ago."The racing industry is crying foul. They say the animal always comes first"

They may wish to take a closer look at what actually happens at their tracks before making any future comments. I'm well aware that bookies offer very competitive odds on animals that come second, third, and worse. You'd have thought at least someone might have known that.

Also, up until now I would have laughed incredulously if you'd told me that applying CPR to a dead horse could kill an industry. I now know better.Let's stop asking "What is mental illness?" and focus instead on "What can be done?"

Quite possibly the dumbest thing I've read for a long while (even if I charitably just accept that it is included as a throw-away, spiffy punch-line for a more detailed discussion preceding it). Grown-ups (a) normally have sufficient wherewithal to be able to concentrate on more than one thing at a time, and (b) consider that knowing as much as possible about something that you're proposing to take some form of action against usually helps you maximise the effectiveness of that action.

Advocacy for mental health issues is in serious strife if this is the accepted quality of the stuff now being served up.As the caption immediately under the photo explains, it's how a real army parks them. Air Force jets parked in hangars are not a very useful guide to how they are ultimately deployed either, and very few navies with visions of success engage combat with wharves still attached to their ships.Are we talking about the same media which is owned and encouraged into action by people who would not be all that disappointed if there wasn't a media around?

Just asking.Well. Where to start exactly? I suppose the quote; "This number hides, however, very different evolutions. Some countries have recovered or nearly recovered. But others are still struggling" is as good a place as any.

If we have arrived at the point where a "chief economist" feels it blogworthy to explain that an overall average can be made up of many different numbers that can all look quite different then we need to assume either (a) he might be in the process of intensive on-the-job training, or (b) the audience he's writing for are imbeciles. Hard to pick which - I guess we have to wait to find out if he's wowed enough by things called "standard deviations" when he eventually stumbles over them to share this new-found knowledge with us on his blog to pin down a more precise reason.

If he's really keen he might like to take some homework away from the office and explore the fascinating world of organic growth. I'll use myself as an example to steer him in the right direction.

There was a time - long, long ago - when my growth could be measured simply by marks on a doorframe. However, whilst that was happening I was also growing stronger and sturdier. I was growing wiser (or so I hoped). I was growing more experienced. I started growing interested in sex as well, and this growth was particularly enjoyable. As the years have passed I've grown increasingly impatient with stupid people, I've grown cynical, and I've even grown copious quantities of nasal hair just to experiment in areas I'd previously never considered as being my forte. Wrapping all this up has been an individual who has (and is) growing older. That's the interesting thing about "growth" - if you fail to grasp that the organism is morphing as it ages, and keep taking your measurements from the tried-and-tested ways of yesteryear, then you cease producing a useable number that adequately explains the thing you're measuring. Do this for long enough and you start writing drivel on your blog.

In closing I'd point out to our chief economist friend that exploring this idea as homework doesn't actually lead you to a useful answer, it merely prepares you to start asking the right questions.I suspect a number of hitherto noisy and irrationally opinionated people may choose to quietly leave via a back door on this one, so allow me to write their script for them in their absence;

* The science behind this whole ebola thingy isn't proven.

* People have always gotten sick. This is nothing more than a natural progression of an already-established cycle. There were sick people during the Little Ice Age you know.

* Even if this ebola thingy is real there's nothing to suggest it is spread by humans being transported in any form of technology that emits carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.

* Australia is only a small country with not really that many people who can die - there are far bigger populations overseas available to be stuck into body bags. Punching above our weight is ridiculous. 25 million divided by 7 billion is a small number, and if I'd completed school I'd know how to work out what it was.

* People pushing this whole "renewables" agenda (aka "healing sick people back to health") are just in it for the money. My money.

Hopefully that takes care of the usual "balance" concerns. The ABC can now return to its normal, leftist propaganda. Thank you for reading.Many thanks blax5. Every lucid, well-thought-through post deserves accurate data to back it up.I was always under the impression you needed the values of diligence, hard work, and perseverance (to name but a few) to make money in the first place.

I see a very interesting "the chicken or the egg" question looming here (we can call it 'the values or the dosh' if you like). I think there's a good chance you've just kicked off arguing for the losing side.Every time I start leaning towards the idea that a government I helped install should take a hike - and then successfully bring it about subsequently - it gives me a lift.

People should really get over the notion that this is an either/or question.The "trickle down" theory does indeed appear to have trickled down - the gurgler.

In order to get the howls of protest and derision really rolling I'll kick off with a provocative statement; I think this country would be a damned sight better off if the inhabitants finally acknowledged they're all socialists at heart and had the courage to come out of the closet.

Our businesses want government to "get out of the way" right up until the moment their assumed cleverness gets them into strife, at which point too much government interference (read "money") is never enough. We have farmers who have lived and worked in a country whose meteorological conditions were identified by someone as unskilled in scientific knowledge as Dorothea Mackellar so very long ago, and yet still find it convenient to refer to a grab for cash when things go tits up as being in response to "exceptional circumstances". Not a day goes by without someone with an "I love everything market" elephant stamp on their forehead explaining how things could be improved in their particular cess-pit with stuff like "resources", "incentives", "support", "assistance", "concessions" and the like - I remember an old QI episode where it was mentioned that the Albanians have an amazing number of words for "moustache". I don't think it's quite appreciated that we are similarly linguistically blessed when it comes to inventing euphemistic terms for "other people's money". I've lost track of the number of times in my life I've heard the immortal line "The government should DO something". Unless the definition of "DO" is limited to prayer, condolence, or some other form of assistance that doesn't require a balance sheet entry, then I'm guessing it means "money". Privatising gains and socialising losses is more than just a hobby - it's the national sport. Take that AFL or Cricket Australia.

I invite all combatants in this pointless struggle to deny our very essence to just put down their swords and turn them into ploughshares after first extracting some form of industry assistance for construction of the forge, a special dispensation for the labour costs and the energy inputs, and some type of tariff arrangement to guard against the dumping of overseas ploughshares into the market. You know you'll feel so much better if you do.

As a capitalist I'd be tempted to keep this knowledge to myself - as a socialist I'm sharing it with my brethren. You see how easy it can be if you have the courage to 'fess up?

Unlock those closet doors and join me!"Of this group, LGBT Australians are estimated to be five times more at risk of attempting suicide than individuals in the general population, due to the mental health difficulties associated with disclosure and community attitudes"

At the risk of inviting the cultural warriors who sit in the wings when topics like this come up in order to pounce on any perceived recidivism by dropping by for a yell, I'd like to put the reasons offered under scrutiny.

Not being part of the alphabet soup that has been concocted to corral such individuals, my command of the topic is a bit sketchy. Nevertheless, I do know that overall community attitudes are light years ahead of what they were back when I was spring chicken - regardless of what any old man in a cowboy hat (clearly unaware of the Midnight Cowboy connotations, obviously) mutters about today. My point of contention is this; better overall communal attitude profile (to the extent it's possible to envelop yourself in a physical and societal zone where exposure to adverse attitudes can be virtually eliminated if you choose wisely enough) leads to a number, X, of suicides as a percentage. Fair enough (if you know what I mean), but we have a control group to compare that against to determine if the alleged reason has stand-alone validity - those homosexuals who lived through the "bad old days". I would have thought those homosexuals who were "out" back then (probably more by it not being their choice than the alternative) faced pressures far greater than anything doing the rounds today. My request for anyone choosing to yell at my ignorance is to explain whether this is indeed so (comparing the "X" of today with the "Y" from back then - or isn't that known?), and possibly explore why it is that the epithet "soft" could conceivably be applied to those struggling today compared to the pioneering forebears of their particular orientation from nastier times past.

The second part is a bit simpler; my understanding is that already "out" gays can become quite unpleasant (when they put their mind to it) with those they might consider as not pulling their weight in the "struggle" by hiding in closets. I certainly don't remember the last time I heard someone straight demanding that a closet queer out him or herself, but maybe I don't pay enough attention. Seeing as "disclosure" was the first of the two "reasons" the author advances, I'd be fascinated to hear how already "out" individuals are part of the problem - despite them thinking they're surely only part of the solution. There are an awful lot of "out" people now and the suicide numbers are still massively grotesque - perhaps the reasons for this aren't as neatly encapsulated as the author would have us believe.So, if I'm reading you right you're telling me that in days when community antagonism was, ON AVERAGE, much more severe that the numbers of "out" homosexuals who committed suicide under that regime was higher ON AVERAGE than it is now?

(Not a debating trick or a pseudo-clever retort but a genuine question by the way)Of course 391 pages of legislation and explanation can be effective. Printed single-sided on paper of sufficient grammage, tied up in large bundles, and chucked out the back of a Hercules it can do a hell of a lot of damage if laser-guided onto an enemy target - there's the initial weight impact to shatter any armour and/or fortification, and the collateral damage from paper cuts caused by the cluster of sheets spraying in all directions can be considerable.

Why you'd waste such a potent weapon by leaving it sitting on desks in Australia achieving bugger-all that's either new or useful is beyond me.Loath as I am to engage in bubble-bursting when someone's clearly having a good time, I'm afraid your degree of purity isn't nearly as obvious to anyone else as it is to you Ben.

In each of the "rights" issues you list above (and for which you tell us you are forever tilting a left- and right-leaning windmills) the various protagonists can ALL argue their standpoint from a position of their "rights". It may have escaped your notice, but the examples you have mustered are, at core, not 'rights vs. no rights' but rather 'their rights vs. my rights'. Come down on one side or the other on ANY of them and the party out of favour can quite legitimately accuse you of not respecting their own version of their rights.

Actually, you're in the "arguing sides" game up to your eyelashes just like everyone else you're unfortunately being dismissive of - in your case by coming down on the side of foolish, uncompromising dogma versus those who see the situation as being a bit more multi-faceted and nuanced than you do. Welcome to the bear pit - sorry you had to leave your pretentiousness at the door. Life can be cruel - especially for ideologues prone to slogan overreach."There is no such right"

Actually, there's no such thing in this country as a Bill of Rights listing what's "in" and what's "out" (which is why you drop by to amuse with your definitions of what you think are "in" and "out"), so anyone can lay dibs on the quantity in question. I'm afraid you're sailing off saving (in your mind at least) something which hasn't even been decided upon.

"By 'multi-faceted and nuanced', you of course mean..."

No, I don't. Wrong. A normally worthwhile debating technique to deflect the argument for those undergoing rationality stress, but unfortunately poorly executed. What I DID mean is that seeing "rights" aren't formally defined (see above) - and subject to individual interpretation (plenty of people will be happy to tell you they have a right not to be offended by the way) it becomes an on-balance, loosely constructed vague community consensus where cases are argued individually and neither "side" is without any merit. By taking this libertarian "I'm all for rights" drivel you spout to the nth degree you unfortunately lose sight of this not being an either/or question, but rather one where competing "rights" are always in play. I do hope in your subsequent quieter moments you will enjoy the irony of me having to explain this to someone who publicly identifies themselves as a lawyer as much as I am right now.

Case dismissed. Send in the skating vicar.One of the fundamental rights of a human is the right to be stupid if they choose. Professor Ben Saul is looking in the wrong place when he bemoans the government's - and some sections of the public's - devotion to the cause.There are limits to the superannuation analogy that no sane, sensible person should cross.

If and when Bernie 'the Sandman' Fraser takes over the commentary gig from Dennis Cometti then that line will have been well-and-truly passed.A few helpful suggestions for answers to cope with the ongoing, inevitable "barracking" question Socrates;

"The New England Patriots" (guaranteed to close off any further avenues for dialogue)

"Galatasaray" (if you can get a lengthy, monotone, highly technical exposition of the off-side rule and how it cost your boys a goal last weekend into the reply as well that almost certainly cements the deal)

"The North Queensland Cowboys" (very much geography-dependant - fine for anywhere south of the Murray, problematic as you move further north, and a positive liability as you approach Townsville)

"Casey Scorpions" (never underestimate the power of passion for a VFL team to ensure you're part of the fold whilst being a conversational pariah at the same time. Nice touch if you are worried by the excessive stigma the above other examples can probably bring)

"I'm a member of the AFL Umpire's Association, and on principle we don't declare any specific allegiances" (possibly a double-edged sword, but worth a try if all else fails and you believe any of the previous replies won't cut through as intended. You may need a security detail to get off the floor at the gathering you're at, and not recommended if terms like "maggot" being flung at you aren't to your taste)

Good luck.There is a strange sense of frustrated truncation permeating this article. For a man who approaches life's challenges through a peculiar ideology, it must be tough trying to write about this issue and squaring the circle at the same time. Here we have a wild gang of crazy, vicious nutters who have embraced the privatisation of conflict, have gone to the "market" for both materiel and funding, and are offering a leaner and cheaper way of undertaking the task they've set themselves. Any dogmatic, blinkered warrior in the false war of private vs. public would, or so I suspect, be deeply troubled with picking holes in their approach to life when it embraces so much of what they hold dear. Unfortunately for Chris Berg, he is faced with being on the side of a massive government bureaucracy, full of inefficiencies and "fat", bleeding money from hard-working men and women - those much-loved working family taxpayers who are being crushed under the yoke of excessive governance, all to prop up a state-run enterprise that this rag-tag band of crazies have shown can be challenged by a logical product of the drive for deregulation.

Rather than an article pointing out the woes associated with shooting first and asking for donations later, what I most certainly would have enjoyed would have been an ideologically pure exposition on how government should instead "get out of the way" and allow self-motivated venture capitalism to strut its stuff. Maybe next week."The central focus of concern is whether a serving officer, whose first obligation is to solve crime and act on reports of potential crimes, should have been involved in the internal processes of the Catholic Church"

Just a thought, but was the officer in question a keen fan of the Father Brown series and feel he was, in some odd way, acting as a counterweight to the venerable cleric by taking up a role diametrically opposed to his in the interests of balance? I'm not a Catholic myself, but there's something inherently appealing about confessions ending with the immortal line "You're nicked" at the same moment the door to the box is bolted from the outside. In fact, the more I think about it I can see real value if a full-scale swapping of tasks can be arranged between the two organisations. A stained-glass identikit picture of a suspected villain would certainly grab my attention, and there's no reason to believe CSI Vatican wouldn't pull plenty of enthusiastically interested eyeballs.Confronted by any mentally-unbalanced woman who enjoys wandering around wearing a hessian bag, threatened by the notion of two blokes having a smooch, and reserved about the idea that someone from overseas (other than him, obviously) will have trouble appreciating the intrinsic cultural value of Speedos. Wow. I'd be a Cheezel-eating, daytime TV-watching recluse if I had to battle neuroses like that. On half-pay.

On the more serious point as covered in the second-to-last sentence (is it really necessary to spoil a valid punch-line point with an inflammatory, unnecessary "jerk" remark Mr MacCallum?), the writer is spot-on - this government is spending way too much time buggering-around on trivial side issues of their own making. I had thought Labor had mastered this sort of self-destructive idiocy, but I fear the scale I was working with has several Grand Master levels I hadn't counted on when working out where the apex of achievement was.Of course, if people came by boat from overseas there'd be a longer incubation period before arrival in this country and less of a need to outlay huge amounts of cash for potential dangers associated with 'instantaneous arrivals' - although I understand international movement by this form of transportation is going through a particularly poor period of public relations in this country at present.

Just as the old saying that "Pilots aren't there for when things go right, they're there for when things go wrong" never really went out of currency, perhaps some bright young thing overseeing the alleged benefits of rapid transference of goods and people for all of this supposed economic benefit may possibly want to re-do the calculations about just how clever an idea that actually is.From memory, a global recession seemed unlikely in 2007.

Funny thing hindsight - not having it clouds your judgement.I trust you read my reply to your challenge regarding the Economist article in yesterday's topic Colmery. It was written somewhat late at night (or early in the morning, depending on your point of view), so I may not have covered everything as you'd wished. Subject to moderator tolerance I'll happily continue the thread if you want.Perhaps reminding people that "too big to fail" actually has an implied lower limit associated with it might not go astray.

In the meantime while we're waiting for everything to fall over I'd simply congratulate "the market" for yet another Economic New Age success. Well done to all involved. Good to see you've managed to stick it up that Menzies chap and all those other closet socialists who polluted the environment last century.A pouch of baccy and a packet of papers and the expression "Let the good times roll" takes on an unexpected new meaning.

I assume the author of this article does actually know what day of the year, and in which homophonic location, the good senator was born? Something to always bear in mind every time he opens his mouth I find.

*Disclaimer; I'm an infrequent puffer myself, and so don't qualify for any of the "nanny state", "sanctimonious twaddle", or "irritating self-righteousness" labels that might otherwise be thrown in my direction. Not on this score anyway.I wonder if the irony is appreciated in the upper echelons of the military establishment.

Five decades ago, and together with the US, this country faced off against an "enemy" that lived just to engage them, that considered territory acquisition and total population governance from fixed structures to be less of a concern than just keeping the other side awake at night wondering where they were, that employed classic guerrilla tactics of the underdog and eventually overran the "state" in question.

And now here we are using them ourselves. In all of the current mayhem a brief note of appreciation to the Vietnamese for showing us the way (even if it did take half a century to decode the message) might be nice.

I look forward to the day our television screens are displaying images of helicopters on rooftops with columns of the last, hold-out ISIS members trying desperately to board them to get out to a safe haven before the tanks come crashing through the gates.

It's the one redeeming feature of getting old - live long enough and it all stops appearing strange and instead takes on a familiar, warm embrace from those earlier, sunnier, altogether more comforting days. I almost feel like buying a dragster and riding it out in the street long after dark with my friends without having my parents terrified that I might be in some unspecified, insidious danger. I must confess I have missed tie-dyed t-shirts as well.When the ideological purists drop by to do their venting you'll find me standing alongside you, tooled-up, and ready for the fight Oldie. This rubbish has got to the point where it isn't any longer a stoush between caricature football team "left" versus "right" idiocies, but between those people who want to think and those who don't.

As you rightly point out, something seriously wrong transpired roughly sometime in the 80s where the old ideologies of the left and right (which BOTH had some poorly explainable element you could call "community" at their respective cores by the way) were seduced over to a dark side. Promises were made, brightly coloured trinkets were dangled, and the whole foundation upon which the existing wealth (and I use that term to mean much more than simply what you can stick in a wallet) was created was thrown out the window. There is no one villain here (sorry to disappoint the political warriors who grace our screens), if you're going to hold a trial, then Hawke, Keating AND Howard are all in the dock (Rudd, Gillard, Rudd and lately Abbott are simply bumbling, unaware accomplices after the fact, and aren't mentally competent enough to be charged. They should simply be detained until the Governor's pleasure be made known).

At it's core is what I believe is the central problem - the death of economic holism. We live in times when each part of the mosaic is separated from the whole and debated to exhaustion. How much profit is a reasonable return? Answer; What a silly question. Players in the game will be able to explain ad nauseum how much is not enough, but sit there with a mouth full of teeth if asked how much is too much. It's a concept which no longer exists. Yet at some point if you over-squeeze the beast in one place it leaks somewhere else.

There was a time when people who could understand the economic equivalent of The Butterfly Effect prepared for it - they called it "having a plan". This radical stuff involved certain milestones being in play simultaneously, and when they aren't being reached the whole shebang gets a thorough re-examination. It seems Germany and even the otherwise free-wheeling USA haven't forgotten this, unlike the mono-dimensional idiots driving this country's cohesion over a cliff in the name of their respective dogmas.

So, yes Oldie - I too think it's buggered. I too think the throw-away promises of the time about what was coming need to be dredged up and put on display. And shown up for being the crock they were.

The respective patriots are welcome to launch their charge - the wagons are in a circle, and Oldie and me have lots of food, water, and ammo.You can take care of the re-loading, supplying me with the odd thirst-quenching tankard of water, and offer comfort and bandages to the injured - my dander's up on this one and I'm more than happy to do the shooting on my own.

Hold your nerve and there could be a VC in it for both of us.As a general rule, anyone that has sole control over who accesses a money bucket isn't normally stupid enough to believe they need to chase any suspected miscreants down every rabbit burrow in sight.

This would appear to be an exception to that particular general rule. Poor call Labor, poor call.

I suppose in the interests of bipartisanship we'll now be treated to some idiot from the federal LNP wanting an enquiry into the South Australian government. And thus the "budget emergency" continues...An analysis that's superficially correct but glosses over an underlying problem - the high level of support for nominally left-wing governance (and the extent that something like Peronism can be called that given its fascist overtones is a moot point) has been bred into the country through the unfortunate habit of past right-wingers that got their hands on the levers of power developing an unfortunate penchant for torturing and killing people and running off with the spoils.

A moral worth reflecting on any time someone of a generalised right-wing persuasion thinks they'd be helping their brand if they just locked up a few more people.No, I've never spoken to an Agentanian. I know of no-one who has.You seem to have side-stepped the point of my comment John. Populist, pseudo-left wing politics has widespread appeal in part because right wing "politics" has a particularly grubby track record in the country. I didn't dispute your original analysis, merely gave it some flesh.Me too.

Strange to say, I'm not particularly enamoured with either the article or Shirley Stott Despoja for writing it. What happened happened, and I don't see it as being either my fault or something I need dwell on. Yep, bad stuff happened, but so did some good stuff along the way. I'm a product of all of that overlain with my own fumbling efforts across the years. In any grown-up's life there should come a point where you accept the cards you were dealt and be prepared to say you are what (and why) you are because of what you chose to do with them. I believe it's called "personal responsibility", and my understanding is it's what we've been supplied with conscious thought for.

There are enough sad individuals wanting to spill their guts everywhere in search of "closure" and "resolution" to keep human interest television programs in clover for decades to come. I really don't think I need to contribute to an already oversaturated market.

"Get over it" may be a comparatively modern addition to the language of the street, but it's funny how it's the older ones amongst the crowd who do best at putting it into practice.I'll rely upon my own judgement, reasoning and experience to decide the best way I get over things if it's all the same with you vote for pedro. Something to do with having the most experience of the particular subject matter in question - or so I'm led to believe.

There are plenty of other people gurgling their "woe-is-me" stuff and splashing their slop all over the room to entertain you and help justify your point of view. You really don't need me."...but I do so in the knowledge that it will not be warmly applauded by a sizeable majority of my fellow electors"

I wouldn't worry about it - those (of which I'm one) outside of this "sizeable majority" (a) clap louder and (b) don't get distracted and wander off aimlessly to whatever the next competing bauble for their attention is. If its applause you're after, just go and make yourself a cup of tea and it'll be playing by the time you get back.

To be brutally frank, you're not even terribly original Paul Ransom. I, and other likeminded people who grace this site, have gone out of our way over a considerable period of time to remind the more extreme political ranters just that very fact - you bought it, you own it. Market mechanisms and all that.An extremely wide-ranging and well-reasoned article for the first three quarters before it eventually descends into some sort of parody of an advertisement for libertarianism. Unsurprising really - articles of this type are always on much firmer ground identifying a problem (which was done very well) than they are at sorting it out. Hardly a startling revelation I suppose - I didn't see a by-line and therefore assume it was crafted by a cabal of unelected technocrats rather than through the democratic will of the unwashed masses. There's possibly a message in that. Many thanks for the link.

As a rule it's usually only my Bank Manager who refers to me as "Mr" - "Pockets", "Pocketful", "Apow" or "Hey, smartarse" are all better alternatives.Neither has he - although his excuse is probably a shade more compelling.There's not a ghost of a chance of that happening Benny.Dear St Andrew's,

As you may have noticed, John decided to cc a whole bunch of us 'others' into his letter to you. Why the man would feel the need to do this escapes my understanding, but I suspect it may have something to do with this ever-present need "believers" have to wave - what in effect is a - private matter between you and your God around for the notice and alleged benefit of others. A classic case of you needing us and our approval more than we seem to need you, or so it appears to me.

Anyway, John had some lovely, some might say sanctimonious, words for your attention. As one of the cc'd recipients I commend them to you for serious attention. I do this in the hope you may explore what appears to some of us 'others' as one of the great mysteries of our times. You - as best as I can understand it - have this notion that belief in, and devotion to, Jesus of Nazareth is the precondition to a whole lot of good stuff coming your way further down the track. That's nice, and unlike some people who snarl at you I happen to think anything that makes you happy can't, at heart, be a bad thing. However, this understanding of mine is that Jesus is THE way rather than A way to achieve this end, which is why you hang around with your mates and do your range of party tricks whilst other types of believers likewise keep to themselves and go through their own array of pantomime performances and believe they're the ones on the right track. An outsider might assume that, at best, one of the whole collection of sub-groups was getting it right, or at worst, none of you are. That's probably a question better left for another day.

So, whilst you're all on board doing your best to meet John's high moral standards, you may wish to ask yourself what it is you're doing running around trying to placate people who had your Jesus chap and his cult already established, took one look at it, and decided it was rubbish and didn't provide the "final solution" they were looking for. I can understand you having patience with Jews - they can be explained away as not paying attention at the time. I can even see a convoluted way around Eastern religions - no Internet at the time, and not everyone got the message clearly delivered. But these people John's talking about - they seem to have looked at this whole Jesus thing and given you the finger.

John mentioned a couple of pieces of text for dealing with enemies. Maybe you (and he) should sort out who or what these people actually are amongst yourselves first before cc-ing us with your thoughts. It tends to cut down on unwanted cynicism.12% of LNP voters support Direct Action? Really?

The only way I can see these numbers emerging would be if the entire Hunt family (and that would obviously include Nibbles the hamster, Nibbles' friends and drinking partners*, and any other weak-minded hamsters that Nibbles and said partners could successfully intimidate) had manipulated the selection process for being part of the poll sample.

I'd ask for a Royal Commission to investigate this apparent corruption, but all the good Commissioners seem to be a bit preoccupied elsewhere at present.

* Comments about having Nibbles on the bar have already been thought of and discarded as being too silly, even for me - could any readers still tempted do likewise."For legislation that is already hugely complex, this bill would take the opacity and convolution of the system to a whole new level"

Read; "We will decide who gets wrapped up in red tape in this country, and the circumstances of the wrapping".

For people with an alleged aversion to stifling regulation, they certainly seem to have (when you throw in all this unnecessary 'anti-terrorist' rubbish as well) a very strange way of showing it.If the regime does end up doing a Tiananmen-style crackdown, and if these people are forced to flee, and if the only way to do this is via "leaky boats", then the ensuing hoop-jumping with "border protection" rhetoric in this country will be worth the price of admission all on its own.Having chosen to introduce your two feet and two hands into the discussion I do hope you're aware that they constitute your extremities - probably something the debate could well do without.

Personally, I'm more of a middle-ground kind-of person, and so am far more interested in hearing where your spleen sits on the matters under consideration. By way of disclaimer I can advise that my own bowels have reviewed the issue of the redundancy and irrationality that Chris Berg highlights, and they've spoken very much along the same lines he's put forward.
