Exactly - the whole commission is Labor / Greens shills.I recently wrote to the Human Rights Commission (which seems to value the rights of some humans more than others) and explained to them my solemn wish that they get decommissioned.
I see that my wish didn't come true. I also pointed out that I see them as Labor / Greens party shills. I place zero credibility on anything that this commission comes out with. Zero.I don't know what economic figures you read, but the biggest risk in the world right now is actually deflation.It will need the kids who have skills. My first kid arrives in Sep and I will be explaining to her the need to get skills - otherwise, some guy in Thailand will do your job for a quarter of what you cost. So the lesson is clear - people need to get the skills the economy demands or get left behind.
And if you don't want to do the study to get those skills, then that your (not the guvvament's) problem and fault.OK. Abbott's responsible for the car industry demise. Hmmm, I thought it was their inefficient production processes, the unions' demands for pay rises for no extra productivity, the companies refusing to make the cars that people actually want to buy, and the chronic lack of scale due to our relatively small market. But I was wrong.
And as for imports, well I'm sorry but I'll buy the stuff I want from whoever gives me the best deal (sorry Gerry Harvey). If a company wants my $$$$, then give me a deal. Ha! It makes me laugh, this crying about imports. Gerry Harvey says that when Gerry Harvey imports stuff, adds a 400% mark-up as the middleman, and sells it you, why that's just great.

But when us consumers find ways to cut these middlemen out and import stuff direct from that overseas supplier - why that's just terrible!OK. Abbott's responsible for the car industry demise. Hmmm, I thought it was their inefficient production processes, the unions' demands for pay rises for no extra productivity, the companies refusing to make the cars that people actually want to buy, and the chronic lack of scale due to our relatively small market. But I was wrong.
And as for imports, well I'm sorry but I'll buy the stuff I want from whoever gives me the best deal (sorry Gerry Harvey). If a company wants my $$$$, then give me a deal. Ha! It makes me laugh, this crying about imports. Gerry Harvey says that when Gerry Harvey imports stuff, adds a 400% mark-up as the middleman, and sells it you, why that's just great.

But when us consumers find ways to cut these middlemen out and import stuff direct from that overseas supplier - why that's just terrible!No, we should import what others can make cheaper than us, and focus on more high-tech things that can support high-paying jobs.
Therein lies the path to economic success.Somebody has to service those robots, engineering them, sell them etc. Efficiency is good, we should welcome it.
Having 20 guys to employed to do what 10 guys could do is inefficient, just employing people so that they can have a job is the path to disaster.And regarding tarrifs, do you think that our trading partners will sit there and do nothing if we penalise their imports to us? Has it occurred to you that they will tarrif our exports into uncompetitiveness, which they would, and justifiably so.
And then you'd have our exporters losing at least as many jobs as you claim we'd gain by local firms not losing to imports. But then we here would be paying more for those products because our choice is reduced, because those imports are gone.Exactly. Those gutless car companies caved into every union demand because they knew that the guvvament would always supply the subsidies to cover the costs. Until we finally had some politicians with the guts to say "no". And now all those workers will get $0 per hour. And double-time-and-a-half of $0 on public holidays.The American minimum wage of $7.25 will actuall buy that worrker a lot more than the Australian minimum wage $16+ dollars will.
Take US$100 into Target there and $100 Aus in Target here and you'll walk out with between 2 and 3 times as much stuff there.
So when you hear the wages and think of those Americans and think "gee, how do they live on that..." many of them are better off than our minimum wage people. And they pay less tax.Yes, Spain with the 25% unemployment (50% for youth), Greece with 27%, France 10%, Euro area 11.6% (source: this week's Economist). Yep, those Europeans know how to do it. We should seek to be more like them.......notHigher wages are always good for the economy? Does there need to be more productivity? Otherwise let's raise minimum wage to $150 an hour, then we can all be high income.Not so. It's only printing money if our Reserve Bank buys them, which they didn't, they were sold to foreign and domestic investors. Those investors effectively have a claim against future taxes we (some of us) will pay.No harm in printing money? It will reduce the value of everybody's savings, have you thought of that? If there were no downside to printing money, then everybody would do it all the time (and yes, I am aware of the printed trillions these last few years).I agree. It's only a matter of time until someone says that everybody's DNA must be on file from birth (if you're not going to commit a crime, how can you possibly object?). It will be only a matter of time until every person should have a chip implanted in them to track their exact whereabouts (and how can you object, unless you've got reason to hide your whereabouts, Hmmmm?).
I agree we need strong laws but the willingness to lie down and submit to every guvvament encroachment is downright scary."Billionaire miners", "big polluters", Rudd referred to Malcolm Turnbull as "the member for Goldman Sachs", "big oil", "foreign workers", "foreign investors".Show me one lynching that ever happened in this country.Corporations should be privately owned so that they will be run efficiently, not like guvvament depts. And besides, I thought it was Laba who sold Commonwealth Bank and Qantas?The only great mess in telecommunications is that great guvvament white elephant, the NBN.Well it's the guvvament's fault for not driving a harder bargain. The contractor will charge the customer, guvvament or private sector, what they can get away with , you and I bargain for the most pay we can get away with, the supermarket charges us the maximum that they can and still get business, the guvvament takes as much tax of us as they can and feel that they can get voted in again.....that's behavioural economics.When it's run privately, provided that ther is competition, prices will, in real terms, come down. How many weeks pay did take to fly Sydney to LA 40 years ago when Qantas had a monopoly. How many weeks pay now? 
How many minutes average pay did it take 40 years ago for a guy in Sydney to call his mum in Perth, and how much now?
That's markets at work.Sorry, he was up-front about the GST at the 1998 election - we had the chance to vote against it.......unlike somebody's carbon tax.What's wrong with slogans? Or are they only bad when those mean conservatives use them, and OK when the cerebral, really, really smart Laba party uses them. I know one thing, the Laba ones can be damn expensive. Think Building Education Revolution, Home Insulation Scheme, Gonski (I still don't know what the details of that are, other than a "gimme more money" from teachers' unions), National Broadband Network. And I loved their 2013 election one "A new way". But people saw through it, and asked "well if you've been in office six years, what were you doing so wrong that now we need.....a new way?"There's a huge difference between forecasting a surplus and actually delivering one. I believe Swan said "return to surplus, three years ahead of schedule". Let's not talk about then producing the biggest (nominal) deficits in our history.
But Yes, as a conservative, I'm annoyed that our so-called conservative politicians can't cut the spending faster than they are.The auto industry was a huge drain - 30 billion in subsidies (sorry, "co-investment) in just last 15 years. Good riddance, and long overdue.So you didn't hear about the "deficit levy", I take it?Yes, that Rudd stole back from Howard because he dismantled a successful policy because he wanted to stand in the spotlight and soak up the luvvies' applause for his "compassion". Cate Blanchett must've been heartbroken when he reinstated that asylum policy, and when he offered to "terminate" the carbon tax.Sorry, but we've wasted billions and billions propping up industries that had the right connections. That car industry never once stood on it's own two feet, never, so people can't blame the relatively recent phenomenon of the persistently strong dollar for it failing. If it had to compete in a genuinely open market, no subsidies or tariff protection, it would've gone bust circa 1959....."Evidence-based" was one of Rudd's favourite phrases. He just never applied to the biggest waste in history, the NBN.Exactly. It's no surprise at all that alcohol and tobacco consume most of a welfare household's earnings. And until that figure comes down, people on welfare have no business complaining. And I don't care what study some "expert" has that says otherwise. We all know that people on welfare smoke far greater than higher income people, even though they can least afford it.
SO if they see paying for cigs is more important than eating, then that's their problem, nobody's putting a gun to their head making them smoke.Are you saying that people on welfare their whole lives pay more tax? I'm sure what your saying here.They're the author's figures, not mine, I'm just agreeing with them. And I'm thinking of how every welfare person I know smokes.See the second graph, select "alcohol and tobacco" from the dropdown box.Sorry, I should've said "a greater proportion of their incomes is spent on alcohol and tobacco than any other demographic", the graph bears that out.Wealthy people waste their own money however. It's theirs, they can do what they like.By that logic, all of us should quit our jobs, and since people being on welfare is so darn good for the economy, then the more people on welfare the better - watch the economy really take off!And how would that be administered? Most manufacturing these days is not building from scratch, but assembling things from elsewhere. Is a T-shirt made in Australia but from imported Taiwanese fabric "made in Australia?". And generally, made in Australia stuff costs more, so you would be condemning those card holders to being able to buy less stuff.
They would be better off deciding for themselves where they get the most for their buck.
And your idea might run afoul of some of our trade agreements we signed up to, those agreements that expand opportunities for our exporters and allow us to import things much cheaper.In the former Soviet Union everybody worked for the state - there was no private industry. But somehow it didn't quite work out.....Here in my little mining town we have four 457 doctors. From the time you start a medical degree to working unsupervised as a doctor is about 10 years. Our first baby is due next month - could you point me toward that big queue of Aussie doctors who are unemployed because of these 457 doctors we'll be getting rid of, and send them here?
We can't wait 10 years.What next, a startling feature on how the sun rises in the east? Show me one time in history where prices went down (for other than technological goods). It was called the great depression, and it's the only way that prices go down because demand is so down. I don't think we want that.Sounds great. But one thing, who's going to do the work whilst we're all enjoying our "leisure"?People changing their spending in response to rising prices is "chained cpi".I recently asked my parents-in-law what they think when they hear of peopl today "doing it tough" in the era of sub-3% inflation, 5% fixed interest rates and 6% unemployment. They laughed, and explained what it's like to deal with 18% interest rates, 15% inflation, 11% unemployment and the like. That sort of puts in context.Why should anyone have to pay more consumption tax? So a family of 6 gets slammed hugely - gee thanks.Why is making housing even more expensive a worthy goal? Let the market allocate the resources, dictate supply and demand.Um, negative gearing has been around for over 30 years.The "logic" is simple - supply and demand. Nothing is "overpriced" if somebody is prepared to pay, no matter how crazy that price may seem to a third party.You just reinforced my point. It seems stupid to the third parties, you and I. But if the buyer and the person extending that buyer credit wants it, then that's "logical". And for some people, they'll commute so they can live in a house so they can have a dog, or don't want their kid growing up ina an apartment.There was never the gross oversupply here that they had in Ireland, Spain and America. And the credit standards here are much stricter, certainly so post-GFCUm, why should it be raised at all, never mind by a factor of 1.5? The guvvament will always find ways to spend whatever money it gets.If a correction comes, then the people who took stupid risks will be the ones who get hurt - and what's wrong with that? People who have the guts to take a risk will buy at the "crashed" price, and life will go on.
And only those who lose their jobs will get hurt, people who can still pay the mortgage are unaffected by the present paper value of their place.House process in London have escalated even faster than Sydney.So where are people supposed to live? And those developments are paid for by private money, not guvvament money. And so what if there are lots of big blocks? We live in a society of private property rights, precisely so the benevolent guvvament and know-all polatishans cannot just conficate your asset, which seems to be what you're advocating.All this whingeing about negative gearing. It was around in the 80s when housing was much more affordable, so it can't be all negative gearing to blame for price rises. You're also forgetting that owners gain from rising prices, it's not all everyone losing.Sellers are owners, I thought.Let me tell you the secret to happiness my friend, which I discovered years ago. Get out of Sydney. Now. Don't. Look. Back.
It will be the best thing you ever did.I'm not sure that popular opinion is a good gauge for economic policy. Reduce spending (particluarly that I benefit from - never! But that other bloke's benefit - cut iT!). Raise interest rates? Never! Businesses and banks to be run like charities? Yes!An interest-only loan would be more likely to make a profit from rent because the repayments are smaller - ins't that obvious?Why should there be limits on how many houses you can own? There are no limits on how many cars you can own. No limits on how many dogs I own, bottles of whisky, barbecue sauce, TVs - why are houses so special that they deserve limits?It's not complicated. But make sure that the job you get pays well. Because if you want good pay for unskilled work, and that work can be outsourced, it will be. Just like the car workers found out.Ah yes, the all-knowing, all-wise benevolent guvvament will make it all OK. Just like they did in the former Soviet Union, which I hear was a paradise and it worked really well.Former minister Conroy, the man who attempted to bring the media under guvvament control, gifted Kerry stokes licence concessions worth hundreds of millionsThis outsourcing of guvvament functions to "experts" is the left's long-held dream. That way, the plebs, who are too stupid to vote the "correct way" (as evident from last year's election result) would not be able to mess things up by passing judgement.
And how will these "experts" be held to account? You can bet that there'd be a revival of the Gillard plan to bring the media to heel, so that the plebs could then be told the guvvament-approved "truth".Maybe I spoke to soon. Outsource all policy decisions and how guvvament is run - to talk radio hosts, as they know everything about everything and just love to demand answers as to why those polatishans don't see things their way. At least then, if nothing else, we won't have to listen to them whinge (and I mean left and right wing radio whingers).Sounds good, but don't forget the talk radio hosts, who are the only "true" voice of "real", "ordinary" or "average" Australians.Would you like to confiscate all of their assets?Ah yes, why won't those rotten polatishans do what "we want". Because what we want is unanimous, from my reading of this blog. Tell me if I have this right:

Action on climate change, as long as some other bloke wears all of the extra costs.
Increased taxes (on that other bloke, the "rich").
Gonski (whatever the hell that means)
Massive subsidies for failed manufacturers (even though we've voted with our wallets and they are failing because we won't buy what they sell).
Massive cuts to that other bloke's "tax rort", guvvament payment, and so forth. But increase mine.

A big increase in funding for schools - but don't you dare make me pay any kind of fee.
Banks to be run like charities - disregard anyone's ability to repay, disregard any risk of a debtor's business failing - just lend because you "owe" us. And if you lose money, well ha-ha-ha.
Companies to be run like charities - stay in business to supply me stuff that I like, but how dare you have the nerve to seek a profit.
Open-ended welfare for all - but I wonder why some people are unemployed, why doesn't the guvvament create a job.
Guvvament regulations to stop fat people being fat, smokers smoking, gamblers gambling, because they are too stupid to save themselves - but stop interfering in MY life.
Polatishans to serve for free, they're greedy - but I want a pay rise, can't the guvvament make them give me one?

This is just a small list, but have I got it close to right?

Thanks a lot
This is a sensible article. Anything that just increases demand without a commensurate or greater increased supply (for non-technological goods) leads to a price increase, whether we're talking houses, cars, bottles of barbecue sauce, oil, pet dogs, anything.
Rising house prices are good for me personally. but I can see how they hurt others.
The other downside will be reduced super meaning a lesser income in retirement, thus making for more dependence on pension, which undermines the whole system.
Although, I notice we couldn't resist going a whole article without criticising negative gearing.I'm with you. And I'm sick of these articles lying by omission and not including rent assistance, concession cards, public housing and so forth. A couple collecting all of that living together is not living high, granted, but is nowhere near as poor as what these articles make out.I don't know what part of what I said was assertions. The benefits of rent assistance, concession cards, public housing exists.Your pension won't be going down at all, nominal or real. What will happen is that ot will be linked to inflation, not increases in wages. And how is that "unfair"?Rupert Murdoch owns media, not torture chambers where you are forced to sign a "confession" and agree to his will. He only gets money from people who freely hand it over, because they believe in the integrity of The Australian and The Wall Street Journal (I agree that the Telegraph is a rag, but you are free to ignore it). So he and The Economist get my money because I respect their work and trust them. Unlike some media outlets who get my money.Show me one subsidy that the banks get.You could argue that that is a subsidy to the depositor. Because the depositor is shielded from risk, they don't have to shop around and verify the soundness of the banks.I'm not sure where all the jobs are, but I can tell you where they aren't. They aren't within a 15 minute commute of your place and comfort zone.
People may have to consider leaving their comfort zone and make a move.
Someone is not going to knock on your door with a high-paying job offer.I work in mining (sorry) and we have 12 apprentices at our site, and we donate a lot of money to our local little town.Contractors employ apprentices too.I have no study to back me up, but I did market research by chance on the unemployed. Some years back, in my uni days when I had to do whatever lousy job was going to pay the rent, I did labour hire work for a transport company who had the gig delivering those Chrisco hampers in my area.
For those unfamiliar, these are extremely popular with welfare-dependent households. Not because they're cheap (they cost twice what you pay in the shops) but because you pay for them over a year.
You had to take them from the truck right up and into the house, put it where the customer wanted.
It seemed that every hose was welfare-dependent, every one was housing commission.
There were many school-age children home in school hours, and the children smoked. Every single adult there smoked. Many had pay TV, and to this day I won't have that even though I'm in top 2% household income. Every single bloke refused to help with the boxes. Nearly every single house was filthy and stank, and was a mess.
Yet despite this seeming poverty, there was still a V8 ute or car, near new, in the drive.
So excuse me if I appear cynical, but I saw hundreds of these places - were they just "unlucky", bearing no responsibility for their stations in life?
I accept that sometimes people have bad luck and the economy can hurt you sometimes, and those people desrve a break, I'm not disputing that.
But as well, every single long-term welfare-dependent person I've ever seen engineers their life to do just enough to meet their job-search requirements, but never quite enough to land a job.
As I said, I don't have a study but I have real life observation. No I didn't ask every person their circumstances or their past. The sample I saw, I'm convinced, was representative.For couples, they get economies of scale where two can live much cheaper than one. This article dishonestlly left out the benefit of rent assistance and concession cards for cheap transport. Not to mention public housing for $40 or $50 a week. Add all that up, and sure it's not the high life, but it's getting by and still better than several billion people on the planet.Increasing welfare is a figment of imagination huh? How many workers per welfare recipient was there 50 years ago, versus now?Drug and alcohol affected? This is frequently used as an excuse for why people cannot make something of their lives. Only if somebody were holding a gun to their heads, ordering them to drink and drug, would that be a valid excuse.State guvvaments create police, locking them up is not the federal guvvament's patch.My first kid arrives in September. I'm working for her, not hand it over to the guvvament so that they can spend it on school halls and pink batts, giveaways to uneconomical carmakers.
People with investment income still pay tax. If they are that well off through honest means that they don't need to work, good luck to them.Well I can think of a problem - I, Aus citizen, don't want it, and I suspect many others feel the same.How is employing more apprentices the guvvament's responsibility? And look at the flip side of less apprentices - wages for trades jobs put them firmly in the upper middle class.So  do you think that we are doing foreign investors a favour by letting them finance ventures that we lack the capital to finance in this country?
If you fell that you're not getting your "fair share", buy some Rio and BHP shares and cash in......Business can pay whatever they want becuase it private money, not taxpayer money.Um, why should a company be using their profits for the benefit of "all Australians"? I don't think they ever claimed to be charities.
And I really think that you have to remember that it was the colleagues of one K.Rudd who sacked him, not the mining industry.I work in mining and we spend millions on enviro compliance. All mines also have to put up a bond, which is refundable on cleaning up after closure, same as a rental bond.Well if Swan and Gillard are that weak that they allowed themselves to be "kicked into submission", as you put it, then that is their fault for being weak and failing to sell their side to us citizens.
We are so much better off without them.You're right. Our guvvament should have took advice on making tractors and cars from the leaders of the former Soviet Union. Ever hear of Yugo? Man, what a fantastic ride......How about the guvvamnet bans that rotten "foreign investment" altogether. Then, we will all get our fair share - of zero, because we lack the capital in this country to make all of these projects happen. And then we can all feel good about keeping that rotten foreign capital out, yeah!
And how about we ban the banks seeking foreign capital to lend to us so that we can buy stuff beyond our means? Yeah, that's one way to solve our current account deficit.A lot of poor people I've seen take no interest in improving themselves, and resent those who do,.You're right. It's a pity that Labor's media control legislation didn't get passed. That way us plebs could get the skinny on jus how great they truly were......Ah, what might have been...You're free to bank elsewhere.S without shareholders, where's the capital come from to start a business?It's meant to make you want to get off it by getting a job.I say shame on all those previous guvvaments that propped up that industry using OUR money. Sure it was great if you were an unskilled person getting reasonably good money at the factory, but all taxpayers had to pay, and all car buyers were forced to pay tarrifs.
What right does anybody have to expect that taxpayers will basically guarantee their jobs? I work in mining and I assure you that nobody gives a rats' when people in our industry get laid off.Sorry, but the industry pays what it legally has to, if you don't like that rate then complain to the guvvament - do you pay more tax than you legally have to?
Sorry to disappoint you, but some sectors are doing well amongst the gloom, although plenty on here wish it weren't so.
And I agree that unskilled people in mining could get hurt in a downturn, but those of us with degrees can move on.
And we get no tarrif protection, we compete on a world market, unlike the car industry for most of its life.
Nobody every had to pay more for our product because of guvvament policies to favour unions.Correction - I meant that the industry pays the tax that it legally has to.Sorry, but every worker on 457 here is paid full rate, there are no barefoot guys using picks, if that's what you think. Please direct me to the drill and blast engineers, electrical engineers, metallurgists and so forth unemployed because these guys are here - they are open to apply for jobs out here.
I'm not aware of any grants my place gets, although we donate a lot to the community, employ apprentices and the like.I was speaking just in my industry, not in society at large. No doubt in a program that big there would be fraud, but that's not enough reason alone to stop it.And another thing re: 457 visas - the guys here, certainly in mining, need to have the relevant degrees and trades. Aussies are quite free to come and move out here, but many won't because it's the sticks. That's fine, it's a free country, live where you want, but don't complain about some foreigner with a degree or trade getting 150K because he or she was prepared to move here.
And also, any Aussie is free to go and, God forbid, under their own initiative and at their own expense, complete a degree that an employer is prepared to pay you well for and then you can count up those big bucks....You have some good points, but if a site needs a degree qualified electrical or mining engineer they need it now, not years later when a graduate becomes self-sufficient.
I hope your job search works out, you have to network, and if you have that degree that is a path to enter the industry.Cheers for the reply. I don't doubt that there's abuses. In larger employers, it seems not to happen. My wife is in HR in mining and there's huge red tape for getting a 457, in our area anyway.
I agree that the no-dole-for-6-months is too much.I agree that it stinks that Abbott gave Cadbury that money. And whether puuting cars together is skilled or unskilled is irrelevant - people don't want to buy them.
And the industry has always been propped up by a combination of tariff protection and direct subsidy. It never stood on its own two feet.
Why should workers in car industry be protected, whilst the guy at the shop gets laid off and it's wellll......report to Centrelink.You are not taking account that consumers will have more money to spend because they can buy cars cheaper, and those purchases will contribute to economic growth.Tarrifs force consumers to pay more - you have not addressed that point. I don't want to pay more for a car because the union wants unsustainable conditions.
And the union is free to make a takeover offer for those car factories, they'll be just sitting there doing nothing once closed, and pay the people that big union money......Negative gearing was around when Labor was in office too. And you're not taking into account the opportunity costs present when inefficient industries are propped up by the guvvament......we all have to pay more so a lucky relatively few can have jobs that pay relatively well for little or no skills (or at least skills that are useless outside that factory).Oh I see. The difference is I've studied economics, and don't just go by "the vibe".Well, you're an expert on mining are you? I work in it, and all operations have to put up an environmental bond so that the placeis cleaned up if the company bails. We spend millions on environmental compliance.Rising unemployment is bad, but it still beats Keating's 11% unemployment after the "recession we had to have". Although I'm sure the luvvies will find a way to spin it that it's not.
And before you answer, it was NOT Howard who changed the definition of "employed" to 1 hour per week worked, that is International Labour Organisation, a universal measure.Let's have another 20/20 summit.The debt is low relative to rest of world but Laba started with zero debt, and it was rising at the most rapid rate in the world (G20 report)Ah yes, Dick Smith who got rich off of consumer spending (and good luck to him for doing so, don't get me wrong), telling the plebs to be grateful for what they've got, and to expect their children to have it worse than them. The irony is exquisite. Hey Dick, don't forget to wave to me from your helicopter when en route to your private jet.You could also say that having it is selfish. Because that child's life quality could be severely diminished, and who will care for it when you die? How will a severely impaired 45 year old Down adult feel when his mother dies and strangers have to take him in?
Because the non-impaired understand what's happening, upsetting though it is. The severely impaired don't comprehend death.It's a tough ethical issue, but as a conservative I lean toward the personal freedom angle and that the couple has a right to choose to terminate (we had that scan a few months back and it was OK). I don't want the guvvament deciding who can't have this scan.
And if terminating a Down kid is wrong because nature wanted it that way, then IVF treatment is wrong.Define "predatory lending" in the context of a country being a borrower. If you shaft your creditors, you had better not need more borrowing for a while.I serioulsy hope Labor doesn't get back in, but when they inevitably do, I seriously hope it's not until after the carmakers have closed up completely. Otherwise, there will be huge inducements of guvvament (our money) "incentives", to "save" jobs that were never competitive without tariffs and  direct subsidies propping them up.Show me an alternative to fractional reserve lending. It seems to have served our society mostly pretty well.I'd prefer to be able to buy a car for much cheaper by importing it, and not being forced to pay inflated prices due to union demands that unskilled workers get pay rises well over inflation.Point 3 of yours is known as "financial repression", and it makes for huge distortions in the economy. It drives down the interest rate that the guvvament pays, which may sound good (at least for polatishans), but it misprices risk - and if there's one thing we should learn from the GFC, it's that guvvament bonds are anything but risk-free (Greece being the most extreme example).
Let the borrower determine how much interest it demands from any society before loaning it money. That way, societies will be forced to give serious thought to how much debt they want the guvvament to run up for "essential services".Labor guvvaments running banks? Read up on the state banks in SA and Vic that went belly-up. No thanks.Well given that they are all healthy, I'm sure it won't come to that.....How do they have more control? The richest person in our society gets one vote, same as the poorest.Sounds great, but who gets to decide what's "ethical and moral"?Years ago I was involved in building the M7 in Sydney. The entire 40 km length has dedicated bike path, including over all bridges. The cost of this was something like 50 million, with street lights every 20 metres.
And you know how many cyclists I saw using it (although I admit I left Sydney years ago). Zero. None. However, there were plenty of cyclists who insist on riding on the shoulder of the road.
There was tens of millions added to the cost of the jobs, to enable cyclists to have a path to themsleves for 40 kms - and then they don't use it, have to use the road. That really annoyed me, and I'm sure many others.
I don't see how closing lanes that thousands of drivers could use, to make a few dozen cyclists happy, equals a net good result.
And yes, I loathe the Greens.I have no love for cyclists, but can you imagine the extra bureaucracy that that would entail?
Would a 6 year-old pedalling around their quiet cul-de-sac need a license?Our 4WDs see lots of dirt up here in the bush, and have great big roo bars on them whic you'd be foolish not to have up here.
Now, if I go the city and some cyclist runs a red light and we collide, then don't blame me.Define "ordinary people". Negative gearing is hardly the preserve of the rich. I know many people whose income is middling, and do it. Not every negative gearer has a private jet.Fair enough, but a tax like that will hurt poor people much more than rich, because they spend a far geater proportion of their income on food and fuel.Exactly. But to listen to the comments one here tell it, there is no such thing as "good life choices". Or bad ones, for that matter. No, none of us have control of our lives, we are all at the mercy of events - maybe even a deity? The commenters here all believe that if you're doing well, well then, you must have ripped someone else off, you don't "deserve" it. And if you're poor, well, that's not through any stupid decisions or laziness on your part, heavens no. It's that rich guy who stepped on you - yeah, and they probably negative gear as well. How dare they use a legal tax strategy, it's unconscionable!Diamonds are expensive because people want them in excess of what the supply is. Simple really, and that logic applies to anything that can be bought or soldAnd your proof of this what exactly? I work in mining and I can assure you that we want to maximise our production at every opportunity of the commodity we produce.Your logic only works if every single developer was in collusion to prop prices up, or there were only one devloper who does not have to worry about a competitor supplying to a customer where that first developer won't. Clearly neither is the case.It is nice to see you attributing at least some blame to where it rightly belongs, to the guvvament. And don't forget how many conditions are put on the inclusions in your house that the guvvament insist on, that weren't there 40 years ago. These conditions contribute a lot to cost.I had a negatively geared place when I was 21, so it's not a bias against young people. Now I have three positively geared places.
I agree that people betting on prices only going up is dangerous, but if you intend to own the place long term it matters not what you could sell it for today.
Another week, another negative negative gearing article. The articles are boring, but contain some truth, but I find the hysterical rants in the comments section entertaining.Capewell - thanks for pointing out that I and others received no bailout, I / we pay ouyr own bills. And if it makes people feel better, those properties now positively gear and wife and I pay tax on the profits.
I'm sorry if that offends people, that the tax I now pay goes to all that great guvvament stuff such as the free heroin injecting rooms, billions for climate change rent seekers, etc.But he was right to say I and others received no bailout. The judgmentalism and assumptions on this site are really something else.Hi, but I respectfully disagree on your thesis. I have the day off today, and took my dogs to the hydrowash to clean them up - have I thus done something bad because by adding to demand, I afforded the vet the ability to charge more, and thus denied some unfortunate soul out there a dog hydrowash because that marginal price increase, when it inevitably comes, put the dog hydrowash just out of reach?
As well, whilst I was out I bought some barbecue sauce and posted a package. Same question - Does my buying the sauce and posting the package make those things more unaffordable to someone else?Because it's the same principle for anything that can be bought and sold - supply and demand. Only if there is a fixed, stagnant supply of something does one person's gain become another's loss. But more houses are being built, more bottles of sauce made, so me or you buying them does not shaft someone else out of an opportunity - they are free to bring their money along and make a purchase or an offer, nobody's stopping them.....I won't cry when negative gearing is removed, as my properties are all positively geared. In fact I'd welcome it, because if it were removed then many landlords would go broke and have to sell cheap, and those of us with capital could buy them cheap. Sounds good to me.You didn't answer my question about whether me buying the sauce means somebody else can't afford their own sauce. And how am I wrong about anybody being free to make an offer on a house, or walk away and say "I'm not paying that"?Show me one food item whose price is controlled by the guvvament - I am not aware of any price controls in this economy on food - shops charge what they want, and we accept or reject their offer.Nobody handed me a job, I never used any connections, all done on the strength of my resume. Sorry if that bothers you. And as for money, it's called saving. You know, denying yourself immediate pleasure because you care about your own future, not expect the guvvament to provide for you."People without those traits". Pardon me, but self-motivation is in all of us, it's just a question of degree and to what you're motivated to do.
Some people only care about now, some know how to say "no" to themselves because they have to get up early and work study. It's your choice.
Some people are prepared to move to where the jobs are, to leave their comfort zone and take a chance - some are not, that's their choice. Some people are prepared to wait until they can afford children before they have them etc.
Do you see my point? And even if you believe that you have no control over your life, what exactly is the guvvament supposed to do about that anyway?Well, like everyone else, my parents paid tax that contirbuted to my education and infrastructure in general. I paid fees for my degrees, and my wife pay more tax than 98% of the population (according to guvvament figures). My choices to study certain things got me the qualifications that got me the job, likewise my wife.
I don't think I ever asserted that I live in a vacuum or island completely apart from your society, so I don't really see your point.....or what it has to do with negative gearing - perhaps you could enlighten me?OK. I thought it was me doing all that uni work, taking whatever rotten job I could get to pay the rent, staying in whilst friends went partying, and so forth. But no it wasn't. I'm not sure who it was, but it wasn't me, so you say. Thanks for setting me straight anyway. I'm very confused now....I'll also just point out that the properties are now positively geared, hence we pay the guvvament tax. To keep this ABC website going, among other things.I agree that I was lucky, we all are lucky, who were born here. But one person's gain in our society does not make someone else worse off. By your logic, when you buy food, you have denied someone else a meal.I'm sorry but if the sharemarket makes a big move up and Gina Rinehart's paper wealth increases 2 billion in a month, we haven't all just been shafted out of 2 billion. And vice versa, if her paper wealth shrinks by 2 billion we haven't all gained 2 billion.Your logic is flawed, but even if we accept, then it's simple - stay out of the market and get rich. Where does wealth come from then, if everyone in the market is losing?For years now, I have been wondering what the difference between "speculation" and "investing" is. I have never yet seen an explanation. It seems to be all in the eye of the person damning that rotten "speculator".....Well you should be happy if it collapses, because then you will be able to buy at knock-down prices. That's how markets work.Well, negative gearing has been around for decades, and housing was much more affordable then. So how is negative gearing to blame?So is a seller supposed to reject a superior offer from a foreigner and accept a lower Australian's offer, because he "owes" his fellow citizens. Sure, that'll happen.You forgot to add "democratically elected" in you character assessment.Oh I don't know. The sellers who realise big profits gain, and they pay tax on those profits if it were an investment property.And in many countries, you get to deduct interest on your primary residence, including America. Shouldn't that cause even worse house price inflation?So what are people supposed to do? Think that prices will go up, so I WON'T buy today?In America, you get to negative gear your primary residence.Like those experts from the IPCC who told us that Himalayan glaciers will have vanished by 2035 if "warming" continues. Mmmmm hmmmm.I expect politicians to be wrong on most things, so the less we expect from the guvvament, the more we ask the guvament to stay out of our lives, the better off we'll be because the less they try to do then the less they can mess up.So if their is no profits being made, and thus no tax being paid, and thus no guvvament revenue, where is all this welfare money going to come from?Exactly. "Honest" doesn't belong in the same sentence as Clive Palmer, unless preceeded by the suffix "dis" or the words "he is not being".Politicians' personal financial affairs are supposed to be open to scrutiny, so that we can tell if they are passing legislation to benefit themselves financially.
They know that when they run for office, and if they don't want to subject themselves to that scrutiny then don't run......Not that left people ever stereotype though.....And what does wealth have to do with this article, exactly?Ah yes, the much-vaunted "experts". How dare the guvvament fail to take into account the rent-a-quote talking heads' views on any given subject!
Every axe-grinding luvvie is all too eager to get on TV and tells us plebs how it is and why us plebs are wrong. Gillian Triggs, Julian Burnside, Clive Hamilton, Tim Flannery, Cate Blanchett et al.....we are not interested in your views, if we were we would have returned Rudd and locked in another 2020 summit (remeber that, Australia's "best and brightest", crying in unison on any and every subject - why isn't the guvvament doing more about.........).
Sorry luvvies, wait until the next Labor guvvament for your "expert" opinions to be counted.Yes, it's a pity that that "Public Interest Media Advocate" (such a non-threatening title) of Mr Conroy's didn't come into being. That way us plebs could get the "truth", approved and verified as 100% accurate and fair by the all-knowing, all-wise, impartial and benevolent "independent" government-supplied regulator.If you're worried that the rest of the world is focusing on us and what we do with asylum seekers, then tut-tutting over it then you needn't worry. I was in America for six weeks a little while back, and you know how much I heard about Australia, in any context? ZERO. So don't worry about the rest of the world thinking ill of us, they have other things to worry about, I'm sure.I wouldn't worry about some tinpot "media consultants" poll. The sample is self-selecting and thus questionable as whether it is truly a representative sample. You have to go out of your way to do the online poll, it doesn't come to you like a traditional landline phone poll.No, the building industry got a huge free kick with that bogus "school halls" rip-off, charging way over the odds because it was a guvvament job. Let the building industry profit using its own abilities, not gifts from the guvvament (paid for buy us who pay tax).Agree 100%. But not understanding is never a barrier to the luvvie whingers on here shouting from the rooftops about the "unfairness" of it all.I don't want pathetic tenants either. Do you eat food? Well then you're stealing it from someone else by your logic, someone is going without because of you.The point is that she is trying to provide for her future - something that many on these blogs just cannot abide. And nobody forces tenants to rent anything, they can rent or reject any place.
And if their all paid off, then there is no negative gearing.Class war - yes, and this blog is the most hate-filled commenst I've seen. All rich people bad, all poor people are poor because they were exploited / unlucky / "left behind" etc...Define "overpriced". Something is worth whatever someone will pay. Whether that person is stupid for paying that much is that person's problem.But people can and do pay the asking price, hence to that person it is not "overpriced".Well, Labor had six years to act and did nothing. Labor wound it back in the 80s and soon reinstated it....OK, The Drum, we get it - you don't like negative gearing. You don't have to have several articles per week explaining it.The criticism of negative gearing for driving up house prices ignores the fact that housing was much more affordable in the 80s, when negative geraing already existed.
Blame state guvvaments for not releasing enough land, and for imposing that many conditions on building that you have to spend a fortune complying.
But I'm sure that the luvvies will damn me for pointing that out though........Homeowners gain as well.It's pretty simple - if you're a homeowner, your asset has gained. Not complicated.
And if I eat today, is that taking the food out of a future child's mouth?Yes, John Howard put a gun to peoples' heads and ordered them to fill their house with credit-financed stuff, buy new cars, take extravagant holidays.....Debt slave? A slave has a master, someone in charge of them. Anybody taking on debt did so voluntarily.So are you incapable of deciding what you will do, you only act when a politician tells you. That seems to be the mentality on here. Me, I take responsibility for my life.And why are rising house prices bad? They're very welcome if you own one or several. That capital gains tax concessions applies to any asset, not just real estate, and therefore leads to higher share prices. Yet higher share prices are universally considered a good thing. So why is rising house prices so bad?
And if there is a big crash and people who paid top dollar for a house at the worst time get hurt, well so what? That's life, you know the risks when you bought, and if you didn't then you should have.$150 increase? That'd not much. And poverty is not pre-ordained, we all have the same opportunity in life to study and better ourselves.Nobody is forced to have kids, stay living where there isn't education (and distance education is huge these days), "drive" is a personal quality, and if you don't have it then it's your fault. I could go on but, it'd be boring.Labor tried to subsidise "affordable housing", and it wasted huge amounts of money and the main beneficiaries ended up being foreign students.
Thanks again Labor.People, not land? So do you want me to buy a person?Policies are set by the guvvament, not the navy.Murdoch employees get one vote in our elections, same as Gina Rinehart, yourself and myself.
Your proof of Murdoch corrupting politicians is where, exactly?Sorry John Connor, but we're not accepting what you say anymore. People are sick of the climate catastrophists' constant "end of the world is nigh" proclomations.
Maybe like your namesake, send someone back through time to save your cause.....How do you mean "protect our way of life"? People pass / passed judgment on Australian-made goods every time that they buy a cheaper import, often as good or better quality. Then, it seems many people lie to survey-takers and say that they'd be all too happy to pay more to "support" Australian businesses.
Hence the disparity between the "I care about Holden / Qantas / aluminium plant / whatever declining Aus manufacturer hit the wall this week" and the ever decreasing share of sales that company achieves.
Just like the liars who boast that they'd be very happy to pay more tax, but never give anything to charity of their own free will......I'm always hearing about "sustainable", but I'm not clear what it means in this context - could you enlighten me?Exactly, good comment. You could say the same for any of Labor's complaining - why didn't you fix it?
I'll make a prediction at the reply - but we were so busy wih the financial crisis......Lighten up Gwen, it's a comment page not a court. Treat this as post-modernism - that is, if I believe it, then that makes it so.Yes, you're morally superior because of your views.I'm really sick of hearing about this subject. It must be time for another "real estate is expensive article", with hundreds of comments decrying negative gearing, it feels like such a long time since we had one.So would you have preferred it for the top tax rate to stay at 48.5% (including Medicare levy) above 50K like it was until as recently as 2003?
The guvvament takes more and more each year through bracket creep, occasionally they were adjusted.
Do you consider 50K to be so wealthy that the guvvament should confiscate half your money above that?There's a very solid reason why the private sector won't touch those projects........they don't want to waste their money.That's how innovation happens, through competition. And what about government - it constantly seeks to grow and intrude, get involved in every aspect of your life, it never stops, it never quits, and it's always coming back for more.
I think of government as being like "The Blob" - it grows to take up every available unit of space.You're also ignoring that you give money to business freely, you're free not to use them, to use their competitor. Try telling government "No thanks, I'd prefer to keep my money".Had Labor not dismantled the previous successful system, the Malaysia solution would have been unnecessary.I guess the thing about it though, that everybody seems to have missed in their "I hate Abbott" fury, is that public transit is a state, repeat STATE guvvament responsibility. So, the states are free to spend as much or as little as they want on public transit.
Response?And do the office buildings have showers for their workers when they arrive stinking from their ride?
And it could be difficult to keep your suit pressed when it's in a backpack, wouldn't it?
Bike lanes, pffffft. Inconvenience thousands to keep a few greens-voting, luvvie whingers happy.Well, I don't think I'd be the only one objecting if someone just rode 10 kilometres in 43 degree heat and couldn't shower and we had to spend the day with them at work.
And it may not be a suit you wear, but it won't be the bicycle clothes you wear that you work in, so suit or not, you still need a shower.It could be hard not to sweat on a 43 degree summer day, that's all.So report this corruption to the relevant authorities, disclose your evidence. Or is it just "the vibe"?Hi there

It's not our debt level relative to others that matters - we don't have to pay back Greece's or America's debt, they do. 
So what annoys me, and a lot of others, is our debt now relative to our own recent past. You know, how just 7 years ago we had tens of billions in the bank, and now Labor racked up a cool 300 Billion debt - that's what galls me the worst.
And as for this much-vaunted alleged "infrastructure" we're supposed to cheer about, the road from my little mining town to the nearest big town is just as potholed as it ever was. I don't see this supposed big infrastructure improvement (although I have no reason to enter school grounds, so I can't see a grossly overpriced school hall, so maybe I'm being a little unfair).
And this "but you had to have deficit spending to keep the economy growing" argument fails to take into account that the Reserve Bank started raising rates at the end of 2010. So, if that spending hadn't taken place, they would have kept rates low, which would have its own stimulatory effect - not least weakening our currency which would make exports competitive).
And by the way, I trust the Australian, the Wall St Journal and The Economist a huge amount more than any other "media" or "journalism".Well, you haven't addressed the contradiction between Labor's "stimulus" and the Reserve Bank raising rates, two forces working in opposite directions.
I'm happy to be corrected if I'm looking at it the wrong way.Thank you, but I'm aware of who they're owned by and choose to spend my money on them. Unlike the ABC, who gets my money without my consent. But the ABC is never biased though, I suppose.Exactly Big Joe. I don't feel like paying for those school halls as I have no children, or those pink batts that killed people as I could see the program was dodgy and avoided taking the "freebie".It's not the road in the town, it's the road to the next big town. We pay our taxes same as everybody else out here, and a lot more than most, and have to drive hours to get to a mall (yes I know, online shopping can help).Says quite a lot - like what?And as for the people admonishing Abbott for not being "popular", remember tha Rudd was immensely popular (at least with the public, for a while, if not with his colleagues), and look at what happened to him.
It would be easy to be popular by throwing huge amounts of borrowed money around, but very damaging.Tax cuts are not government spending. To believe that, as the green-ABC-Fairfax triumvirate do, you have to believe that every buck you earn from work / business / investing belongs first to the government, and whatever they let you keep after confiscating their share is the benevolent government doing you a favour, being generous.
That great whinger Ken Henry complains about "tax cuts" Let's remember that Howard was a great and enthusiastic abuser of bracket creep, and as recently as 2003 every buck over $50K was taxed at 48.5%. So what Mr Henry seems to be advocating is that bracket creep just grows and grows and we pay more and more tax to the government so that they can give it to us.....and act as though they're doing us some kind of personal favour.Point me to this supposedly you-beaut, ultra-necessary "infrastructure". I'm afraid I can't see it.Sorry I didn't realise that Labor invented the post office post-2007. And as for all this Gonski and NDIS, it was never funded, so you can hardly claim credit for something that you didn't actually get off the ground.Good comment. And I remember that Ms Plibersek modestly gave herself and Labor "9 out of 10 for running the country" in that same interview.
I wrote to her to question this, and thank her on behalf of my first child, who arrives in September, for running up 300 Billion in debt that somebody has to pay back.
Oddly, she never replied, so I'm a bit disappointed, but that's life.....Well, no I haven't been brainwashed by shock jocks as I don't listen to them, I form my own opinions.
I find it intriguing that anybody who fails to swallow the Labor line is "brainwashed, ignorant, deceived, a sucker", according to many here. Has it occurred to you that people have a right to see the world differently then you?I disagree that the future's bleak for parties questioning climate change, people are just not open to being terrified by the "experts'" predictions (and that's all they are, estimates) of death and destruction.You are right about Plibersek's husband. I'm sure that he's just such a supremely talented individual that the department just couldn't live without him. The fact that he was appointed to the job by a Labor state guvvament, and he's married to a senior Labor politician had nothing to with it, alright?
Same as Anna Bligh's husband was so talented that he just had to be appointed to a 200K-plus a year job, the fact that he was married to Anna Bligh was irrelevant, alright?Sir, what's it like having a special insight that the "gullible", as you call them, don't have?Fair enough. Although I don't know if your self-description (self-praise?) of "common sense" is accurate, given that most disagree with you.Check the poll. I'm not saying polls are always right, but if you claim common sense then that, by definition, means it must be at least 50% +1.And meanwhile the consumer has never had so much choice for so cheap.....that's capitalism. If a company wants to send itself broke giving me deals, then be my guest.....But, but, .....I thought that that 18C we always hear about was meant to prevent this ever happening?
You mean some people still have free thought?It was an interesting, but typically Australian self-loathing. It seeks to criticise us when this whole event is not about us.The owner was rude and bigoted, but at least he was honest in expressing his views, however misguided.You are absolutely right. Here in my little mining town in NSW, I can give you a gem of an example. We buy a lot of stuff online, as you simply can't get it here.
When I order from Macys.com, it get shipped from a warehouse in Ohio, pretty much in the middle of America.
I see from the tracking data that it takes four days to get to Sydney, by a private courier.
Auspost brings it the rest of the way from Sydney, about 8 hours drive - and it takes four days!
So if there's anyone who wants to argue that the private sector isn't more efficient than the private sector - I just showed you otherwise.I live in a rural area and I agree with him. And farmers don't send food as an act of charity, they sell it.
And post services in the country are cross-subsidise by higher prices charged to city residents.I (we) get it at the market price. If the farmer is not able to cover his costs with what the customer is prepared to pay, then there is an oversupply of that product in the market.
Farmers will then reduce output until supply and demand is balnced - that's how an economy works.I want to get everything from the cheapest source - if that means China, so be it, if we can beat their price, I'll buy the local made.
I don't make purchasing decisions emotionally, I simply seek the best price.
I live in the bush too, and nobody's putting a gun to my head to stay here.I don't see what's self-centred about wanting the best value for my money - doesn't everybody want that? I have a kid coming, I have a duty to them to be able to provide the best for them - that means getting the most for my money.
If you want to pay more than you have to for things because you fell that you "owe" certain companies, then that's up to you.Well I'm not really sure how me seeking value for money hurts a worker. It's up to business to be efficient if they want my business.
And you could argue that by demanding value for money, I thus have money left over to spend on other things, from companies that will employ more workers.
As I said, if you feel you "owe" businesses your custom without them owing you the best deal, then feel free to give them your money - I won't be.
I'd prefer to put extra money away for my retirement and my kid's future then pay Holden too much for a car I could buy cheaper imported.Define "taking control of our destiny".Every person and company, acting in their own rational self-interest within the law, will produce the most efficient economy.
Guvvament never knows best, and thus shouldn't make economic plans, except for to reduce regulations and trade barriers.I will never understand this mentality that guvvament is somehow always honest, competent and purely concerned for your / our interests. Where does it come from?
Take a look at the parade of corrupt politicians being paraded through the NSW Corruption Commission.
Take a look at the Craig Thompson and Peter Slipper scandals. Look at the massive waste in that pink batts and school hall "stimulus". How do you rate those for trustworthiness?
And the good thing about the private sector is that if you don't like what they're selling, or their service or price, you can just refuse to give them your money.
Try telling the guvvament you don't want to give them your money and see what happens.Too much of "public service" seems to mean massivley bloated bureaucracies, way too many employees, over-inflation pay rises for no extra productivity, and a level of job security that private sector personnel can only dream of.
It's a stinking deal for taxpayers. I don't really give a rats who brings my parcel that I ordedred, and if the guvvament were to step away, then a private company would step up, then a competitor would seek to outdo that first company, prices would come down due to competition, that's how the economy works.And why does it make such big profits? Because it's run efficiently, by private interests.
Think about how much pay it took to buy a QANTAS flight 30 years ago, or make a long distance phone call versus now?
There's two.Why? So they can employ loads more people than they need, and threaten to strike when they regain the monopoly to force spineless polatishans to grant over-inflation pay rises for no extra productivity?
Er, no thanks. If you feel that services would be cheaper if only the guvvament ran them, I beg to differ.
Things can only be cheaper by the guvvament supplying it is if it makes up the losses from general revenue - OUR taxes, or money that they borrowed, which OUR TAXES will have to pay back.
Er, no thanks.I can't even remember the last time I needed a bank service I couldn't do online.I'm in the bush too and at lunch time at my PO, when I have to get a parcel from my PO box, two of the staff will be nowhere to be seen, one will be handling a queue that is going out the door.
They don't seem to have thought that they should stagger their breaks to allow for us plebs coming in on our lunch break!What's wrong with profits? Would you prefer an economy full of losses? Do you seek to profit from selling an hour of your labour? It's the same thing, you want to get paid for providing something that someone wants.Don't forget that Howard was a great abuser of bracket creep for the first half of his term, a lot of those so-called tax cuts were just handing back bracket creep. Are we supposed to have those brackets stand still so you get to the point where even a minimum wage earner pays the top marginal tax rate?
And what's wrong with people getting to keep more of what they earn? Why should the guvvament have first claim on every buck generated by the economy?
I agree that his spending was too big for a supposed "conservative". Small guvvamernt wasn't in his DNA. I don't think the tax cuts were a bribe, all the family benefits were but, making single people and childless couples subsidise the welfare state.The brackets barely moved through the 80s and 90s. By 2003, the top rate kicked in at 60K, which at the time was 1.3 times the average wage. 1.3 times the average wage ain't rich!
And even if the brackets did move faster then inflation (which they didn't over the long term) - what's wrong with that?
If people were allowed to keep more of their own money, then less people would need welfare! But no, that just wouldn't do.Pfffft. My little town saw nothing of that stimulus. When people in mining here were getting laid off en masse in the GFC, there was no photo-op minister in a hardhat throwing billions around (and nor should there have been, you have to roll with the market economy, but I'm pointing out that they were selective about who gets what).
Perhaps the homeowners whose house was burned down in that pink batts scheme, for instance, might not have such a rosy view of the "stimulus".
All stimulus does is pull future consumption into the present - that's it.Fair enough, but your house loan or mine are our problems - not everybody elses, unlike the national debt.I'm not really sure how you give someone who earns 25K a $100 a week tax cut, given that then they wouldn't have even paid that much tax.Are you aware that inflation struck 27% shortly before she came to office? Should inflation have been allowed to run rampant, so that then everyone can demand big juicy pay rises? Then inflation gets worse, but everyone wants big pay rises to compensate......
Meanwhile, everyones' savings are destroyed.
Inflation hurts poor people much more than wealthy.Low debt hmmm? And silly me here was worried about 300 billion in gross debt.I work in mining (sorry, I know that's offensive to the Drum Crowd). I assure that that stimulus did nothing for our industry. But then, we aren't a big union industry, so as far as Laba is concerned we can go to hell.We get no subsidies. I mean we in mining. It was our industry that stimulated the economy, through market forces, that made the dollar strong and allows people to have more purchasing power than ever before. Do you understand that? Sure, maybe a lot of that money gets spent overseas but that's freedom isn't it? People can spend their money better than the guvvamnet can.You're right, I was fortunate to avoid layoffs but those who don't put aside are stupid. Same as how people in our country who think we can just keep spending and never have to pay the bill....Read about more people being lifted out of poverty than any time in human history, mate.Yes, it sure was great if you were one of these beloved "tradies", wasn't it?
So why do they, and failed car factory employees, get all the love?
Because they are union people.You know, it's not like he spent his OWN money. We all pay it back, with interest, for decades. And there is an opportunity cost, more interest paid today means less for hospitals, defence, and so on.Agree 100%. Anyone would think Laba spent their own money.I'm glad Swan was prepared to "back himself". It must be so nice to have hundreds of billions of OTHER peoples' money to throw around, and then stand in the spotlight and talk about how you "saved" Australia.
And what the Laba propaganda always ignores is how they over-stimulated the economy, thus causing the reserve banks to raise rates, thsu taking money out of peoples' pockets. They never explain that fiscal and monetary policies were pulling opposite directions.
You are right, rates were rising due to the strong economy, which is normal.
But my point was that rates could have fallen lower and stayed there were it not for that massive spending.
And if you think that stimulus is the answer always, how did America have a nearly trillion dollar spending binge, 0 interest rates for nearly six years now, and the weakest economic recovery post-World War 2? Family income is still lowere than pre-crisis, 5 years into there so-called recovery.I'll trust The Australian, The Wall St Journal and The Economist way more than I'll trust any other outlet, including ABC.
I happily give them my money.I agree that was a disgusting practice, but none of the publications I noted did that.You could say that about anyone in relation to anything. Guilty until proven innocent.Exactly. Remember Labor Senator Cameron fuming about the Murdoch press spreading lies about leadership tensions between Rudd and Gillard, all just "lies" we were told. And then a few days later, it was all proved true.We, the readers, scrutinize the Aus - if they don't provide quality, they won't sell. And as for having limited choice in the bush, where I also live, use the net to get whatever you want - there is no tyranny of distance in the choice of media now.I don't believe I mentioned who I vote for.Oh right, it's always nice to hear the tolerant, non-judgemental, non-stereotyping people on the drum. And I suppose that that means people like myself have no ideas except but for what shock jocks tell us, would that be right?Again, you are stereotyping, I made no mention of my politics.The Wall St Journal is not know for being a "fun", lighthearted read.Do you regularly read it? It has a paywall, so you must be paying for it to read it, which implies that you respect it enough to pay  for it.
Or, you don't read it, and are just assuming.
I find that it goes quite in depth on serious subjects. I don't think any outlet has covered the Ukraine crisis, or other recent controversies, and the world economy in general, any better.And who is a "thinking" person anyway. Only someone who see the world your way? It seems that way, given the bile that gets thrown around on this site (ironically, from left people who preach "tolerance" and "diveristy").
And the ABC will happily take my money too - the difference is though that they don't have to earn it.......7 can spend it however they want, it's their money.Who says that all poor sick and elderly consume ABC?I'm sorry but if those other newspapers were making a quality product, then they wouldn't be able to be "squeezed out", would they?Well there's this great new invention called the "internet", and it allows you to read papers from anywhere in the world, even Adelaide!If Australians are smarter, then they can't be manipulated by media, can they? They will carefully parse the news that they consume and decide for themselves. Hence, there is no master manipulator.Are you aware of how smug and superior that sounds - anybody who voted Coalition in 2013 couldn't possible have agreed with the policies, no - they are just plebs who were brainwashed.
So by your logic, if there were no Murdoch, not a single person would vote Coalition.
Well, I'm convinced, thanks for the insight.Show me one Labor scandal that the ABC focused on. It was actually The Australian that exposed the children overboard affair, the Dr Haneef business, things that embarrassed Libs. Then they embarrassed Labor re the Qld Floods.
The media adulation of Rudd and Gillard, at least at first, was cringeworthy.Hello

I tried to reply before but the moderators didn't let it through.  I like to come to this site and listen to the whingeing. I find it amusing that people here just cannot believe that the Coalition is in power, when everybody that they know votes Labor or Greens.So what are you saying, News Ltd is bad because people chhose to advertise in it?I have an answer - revive Julia Gillard's and Mr Conroy's idea to control the media.
Open up several more guvvament media outlets, so we can all hear much more about climate change and gay marriage - the two most important subjects in the world, and which, incidentally, I just never get tired of hearing about.Um, I don't think I ventured any defence of spin expenditure.....You can't judge on sales figures of papers alone, consider website paywalls. And consider what's happend to the Sydney Morning Herald, the "sophisticated" persons paper, it's in much worse shape. Evidently the luvvies are no longer prepared to shell out for it.....Even if the grievances were legit, how does people looting stores make a protest? It just seems like opportunistic criminality to me.
And why is it, that in these "protests" (looting binges more like), bookstores are never targeted? It's always electronics, booze, clothes.I'm saying that for some bad apples, it's just an excuse to loot. Get something for nothing. And many of the businesses destroyed are small businesses, belonging to people in the community.
Looting stores is not "sticking it to the man", it's just thuggish.Innocent till proven guilty - for the looters or the cop who shot?So what are you saying - unemployment is justification for looting? Why should the business owner be the focus of aggression, what did they do wrong?I fail to see how someone looting a store is a "victim". And I mentioned what they steal to highlight that it's just an opportunity to rob, for many. But yes, there are decent people peacefully protesting as well.I've spent plenty of time in America, and I assure there are just as many white / hispanic people picking food out of garbages in New Yorck CityWhat about the 40+% inflation, the shortage of basic goods, one of the highest murder rates in the world, plummeting currency, big unemployment? What about those?
And why is everybody who disagrees with you a sucker for propaganda?Privatisation is good. And it was Hawke Keating gov who privatised Qantas and Commonwealth Bank (both of which were long overdue).
And most privatised assets were state guvvament anyway.
It is highly condescending that you say anybody who votes a certain way has been duped - as if no thinking person could possibly agree with the policies.Don't like Qantas? Don't give them your money. Don't like CommBank? Bank elsewhere.
And as for Telstra - haven't you noticed how much telecommunications costs have come down in the last 15 years? How much did it cost to call long distance 15 years ago, versus now? Do you think such dramatic price drops would have happend if the guvvament still owned it? Your costs are cheaper in nominal and inflation-adjusted terms.
And if people want to see solar energy and wind farms, then they're quite free to invest in companies that provide that - nobody's stopping you.
Imagine how many Telstra employees there would be if it were still a union-run m onopoly - what 200 000?They were a union-run monopoly, of course they had loads of people hanging around waiting for something to do.
And I hardly think it's unfair that if you call someone to your house, then you're not home, that you get charged - why shouldn't you?So what are you saying - I should give some other bloke half my hours?You give someone half your hours then, I'm not.Doing it tough? Sub-3% inflation, unemployment 6.4%, home mortgage rates barely 5%.
Compare with the late 80s early 90s - 11% unemployment and 18% home mortgage rates, and double digit inflation.
If people self-report as "doing tough" with a 5% mortgage, picture the squealing at 18%.You are right on the rate, but how was it subsidised by the taxpayer?
It just goes to show that polatishans should never be allowed anywhere near interest rates. Neither of them had the guts to make the reserve bank independent when they were treasurer.And how many people lost their homes, thanks to those 18% rates?Was the economy stagnating whe Rudd got in? That's funny, my recollection is that rates were going up due to how strong the economy was growing.So let me get this straight - when the economy is growing under it's own steam when Howard was PM, with no guvvament stimulus, Howard deserves no credit.
But when Swan experiences the biggest mining boom in history, and throws hundreds of billions of borrowed money around, Swan deserves a medal.
And as for people being "bribed", people deserve to get to pay less tax - it's their earnings.
Unlike this borrowed money that people want to party with today, that the next generation will have to repay."His" success? I thought it was several hundred billion of OUR money.
My first kid arrives next month. I look forward to explaining to her that a 30 year bond that Mr Swan took out in 2009 will have to be repaid in 2039. It was critical for the school halls, you see.
I suppose that stimulus was great if you were a "tradie", who got to charge huge money because there was so much guvvament work, or a union member in a failing car plant.
I work in mining, saw a lot of people laid off, and the guvvament didn't give a hoot, I assure you.
But please, this talk the he "saved" us, it's a little bit rich.
And besides, remember when our reserve bank had to start raising rates at the end of 2010, because the economy was growing too quickly? They wouldn't have had to do that if that stimulus weren't so big. The Laba crowd never addresses that point.And sorry, but I work in mining, so that stimulus didn't benefit me at all - I saw loads of people in my industry lose their jobs, fortunately I kept mine, but there was no "Swanny" or Rudd in our town with hi-vis construction vests and hardhats to hand out hundreds of millions or billions of money.
Sheesh, anyone would think Swan reached into his own pocket and pulled out his own money - he didn't! And we ALL will be paying it for decades!No, my job was saved by the demand from overseas customers for our place's output. Nothing to with Mr Swan.The Chinese stimulus - nothing to do with Mr Swan. And I don't care about China's stimulus because I don't have to pay back their debt. And there is oodles of bad debt bubbling away under the surface in China.
And still, I'm yet to hear any of the Swan boosters counter my point about overcooking the stimulus and thus causing rates to need to be raised by the reserve bank.......Perhaps, just perhaps, the pink batts scheme was actually a cunning two-stage stimulus. You know, stage 1 we install the batts, stage two there is more work for building workers rebuilding those houses that burned down
That Rudd sure was smart.That's as maybe, but what about the notion of "value for money", as in getting the most for it - that doesn't seem to have been considered.
And just as a sidebar, the federal guvvament is not responsible for one single school.Um, route 1 all round the country is federally managed, in conjunction with state.....I guess you haven't considered that public transport is a STATE guvvament responsibility.Adrian Bayley, who murdered Jill Meagher last year.Sorry, but economic freedom is necessary if you're social freedoms are to be worth anything. This article basically says that the power of guvvament to confiscate your income should be appointed to an unelected commission.
I'm sorry, but that would be tyranny. If polatishans want to confiscate more of our income, then let them justify why, and we get to vote them in or out accordingly.
I agree with the Reserev Bank being independent, but they don't have the power to reach into your pay and snatch it.Hi, thanks for reply. I'm not sure what a freedom troll is exactly, perhaps you can enlighten me?
I meant economic freedom in the sense that we plebs get to pass judgement each election on the guvvament's tax-and-spend decisions.
This unelected commission would remove that process.
And Mr Hewson, would guvvament spending have to be set to match what this commission says is a fair tax take, or vice versa?Fair point, but you get to pass judgement at the next election.I mean economic freedom where the guvvament has to seek your approval for how much they take. That is, we plebs get to vote against them.
I'm not sure that the former Soviet Union was big on letting its citizens pass judgemenst on the economy (or anything else).Whatever - but still, the citizen never got to pass judgement, did he or she?Yes, the 16 billion on schools halls, whether they were needed by that school or not, was just great (if you're a building contractor who gets to charge a fortune for the work).
And that pink batts scheme was just visionary (at least as long as we don't ask people whose house burned down).
And the hundreds of millions to failing car plants, well, the achievements just keep on coming.
Bravo!That levy won't even go close to funding the NDIS, just like the Medicare levy doesn't even go close to funding the health system. That is a fact.show me just one, just one, European economy which is running a budget surplus. actually, I'll do it for you - Norway and Germany are running surpluses (source - this week's Economist) and guess what - they have among the lowest unemployment rates in Europe (3.2% and 6.7% respectively)!
Spain has a budget deficit of 5.7% of GDP - and unemployment of 24.5% (yes 24.5)!.
But sure, austerity is awful......Then it follows that deficits don't promote growth doesn't it?"one bad PM, and that was Rudd". Evidently the Laba party disagreed with you, by sacking Gillard. But then they sacked Rudd as well.
I wish Gillard had stayed.....so the electorate would have got the chance to pass judgement.This may disappoint you, but in our society we're free to disagree with the guvvament, and many did and do. Nobody owes the guvvament any support.Yes Mr Chavez, they were lucky to have him. So much equality, everyone is miserable. 40+%inflation, shortages of everything, plummeting currency, increasing unemployment.
I think I'll keep our way of doing it thanks."21000 new jobs". OK, and how much subsidy were directed to these rent-seeking industruies to generate those jobs. All these studies lie by omission and just mention gross job gains, never the huge subsidies and taxpayer gifts involved.
It makes me laugh, these industries that grow up on guvvament subsidies and act as if they're doing society a favour.
Make it on your own.Alpo
It was Rudd as PM who spied on Indonesia.Skeptic
Could you explain this "reward" for us?The leftist media has reported with predictable glee that there is some kind of spectacular "deal" reached on climate change.
I'll make a prediction right now, that it will amount to about as much as that Kyoto Protocol (remember it?). In other words, it's just talk that someone signs up to in order to be seen to be doing something.John 51
Productivity comes from using the cheapest possible inputs that are of an acceptable quality, and coal is that. What these articles praising policies that either subsidise "renewables" or force us consumers to buy their output never mention is the concept of "opportunity cost".
Opportunity cost is the most important factor in any country's economy, and will eventually always come to the fore.DrDavid
If the opportunity cost of Abbott's tenure is big reductions in corporate rent-seekers, especially these "renewable" companies, then long may he reign......mt_syd
What the RET and "subsidies for renewables" crowd also never mention is the number of NET jobs created by their industries. For instance, in Spain their "jobs" needed about 200K euro a year of subsidies. It would cheaper to pay someone 100K a year to stay home and watch TV.
So let's get honest here, boosters of renewables and start telling us how many NET jobs you "create". My estimate is that they'd rather not talk about it.....Frank
You are so right. I have never heard anybody I know say "ooh yes, I sure want to pay more for energy, I sure loved that carbon tax". But to see the ABC, you would think that every citizen is clambering for it, only to have it cruelly ripped away by that mean Abbott.
Peopla talk of "big polluters" - but what are they doing? That's right, they're giving us products we want, and that we couldn't stand to live without. That's it, and they generate jobs in the process.
So anybody who said that they wanted a carbon tax, and then complained about the cost, is a pure hypocrite.
But people don't want to hear that, do they?Agreed
I work in the industry and sites have to put up huge amounts as bonds, same a as a tenant does. And spend millions every year on compliance.
Yet all the experts on the industry who post here don't seem to understand that.Peter of melbourne
Ask voters if they want to be free to buy cheaper cars and clothes - how do you think they'll answer?Marilyn S
Try sailing close by an American navy ship unannounced and see what happens to your boatThis article raises some valid concerns for a conservative, mainly that where the guvvament doesn't like the out come of a court case then they just move the goal posts to get the results that they want.reaver
You are right, and I support the strong border protection and was disgusted by Labor's free-for-all. I just mean in general it's alarming how quick they could be to change the law on any issue, even though it is allowed.The most insidious form of rent-seeking is in the field of climate change, all these "green" companies wanting our tax dollars so that they can profit from it.
The car industry is another gem, although thankfully it's days are just about finished.
The level of rent-seeking in our economy is disgusting, it really is.
And yet for some, the guvvament should get involved in more and more areas of life.rattan
Those "independent" reports are anything but. Throw a dart at a board for a number that is equally accurate.Alpo
If it's such a great investment, then there should be private investors tripping over themselves to fund it. Let THEM take the risk. And if they're not willing to, then there's probably a very solid reason.Hello, hello

I am opposed to all trade barriers and subsidies. Where did I say that some subsidies are good?
And you might love the idea of guvvament getting more involved in your life and making your decisions for you, but many of us do not.
Polatishans don't know best.North-west
So you're another one of these 'other people are sheep who do what Murdcoh says, but I'm smarter than the average" persons.
Have you ever heard someone say "I voted for that party because Murdoch said so"?
I sure haven't.PeterH
Faith in the people was it? Is that why he used rampant inflation to ruthlessly use bracket creep to confiscate a greater and greater portion of peoples' incomes very quickly?
That to me is the mark of arrogance, that people have no right to keep what they earned through their labours and risk-taking.
But that was Whitlam's mentality wasn't it, that "quality of life comes not from what an individual can buy, but from what the community provides". In other words, the guvvament always knows best, and therefore deserves to get its hands on everything you've got.Stuffed Oilve
Perhaps you can point out where I'm being inaccurate?Stuffed Olive
Bracket creep still exists today, both parties love it because they get to increase taxes without coming out and announcing it. A lot of the "tax cuts" that people whinge about here were just handing back bracket creep.
And as for their being no rampant inflation under Whitlam, I would consider near 20% in 1974 to be fairly rampant.Jungle boy
Simple. Inflation was around 20% in 1974, and he increased the federal spending by over 40% - which of course caused enormously more inflation.
And if the income brackets at which higher level of taxes cut in stay static, whilst inflation leads to pay rises that push people into higher brackets, then the portion of your total income that the politicians get increases rapidly.Reallist
How are the elderly "outsourced to Thailand"?
And it's not much good getting an 18% pay rise if inflation is 20%, is it? And it also means that anysavings you have are being eroded at a huge rate.
Thanks God we don't have inflation like that any more.cangaiman
I'm not sure about those issues, but if there was law-breaking report it to the authorities.Skeptic
Why should the bloke who cleans the toilets and empties the bins at the uni pay more tax so that some kid can get a degree and earn millions more than him? Oh I know, the argument is that because society as a whole is economically superior with more degree-qualified people. Yep, the janitor should feel happy about that as he's picking up the cardboard toilet roll centre off of the floor that someone couldn't be bothered puttuing in the bin. Yep, it makes sense.
I paid for my degrees, so did my wife, and we earn way more than we would have without them. It's fair that we had to pay that.General Disarray
No, that is not my point, but the person who will be receiving the benefit of the education, should contribute some to it. Simple and fair.Skeptic
It's a matter of respect, and people disrespected the deceased by doing this at his funeral.. Booing at a footbal match is appropriate, at a funeral it is not. I suspect that Gough himself would not have approved.R Supwood

I was born in the Fraser years and don't profess to be an expert on them, but from what I can see his entire achievements could be carved on the back of an aspirin with a pick.
Show me one thing  that we can point to and say that he did it, and it was significant and improved things?Eligius
Yes, I actually tried to join up but they rejected me.Rhonda
The Liberals too conservative? I WISH we actually had some conservatives in this country, people who actually want to reduce the size, scope, reach and role of guvvament. But I doubt I'll ever see it......Roger
Absolutely true. I find it disturbing that an 18 year old girl could be so misinformed that she thinks that Whitlam gave her the right to vote - I hope she wasn't told that at school.
I'm also sick of the misinformation getting about. For instance, that he abolished the death penalty even - er no, that was a state guvvament area, nothing to do with him.Comrade
Agree on 18 years of age in general, but she spoke as if there was not the right to vote for women of any age.Skeptic
Evidently the peope who elected Thatcher thrice disagree with your assessment.
They could clearly see that 20%+ inflation was not much of a future.ROB COCKS
You're right regarding our wages. A lot of people in Australia think "America is so tough on low wage people", but they don't realise that one hour of minimum wage in America buys more stuff than one hour of minimum wage in Australia.
Robert
I'm getting so sick of this "farmers are some kind of special people" because they grow food. It's not like they do it out of concern for whether we have something to eat now, is it?
Nationals socialists always want more for the farmers, and it's really getting old. Really, we can import everything we need thesedays.
And people find farming too tough, then they are free to walk away at any time, same as the rest of us are free to seek greener pastures anywhere anytime we want.Peter NQ
So we can't import food, is that what you're saying?Brain into gear
Could you please define the difference between investor and speculator?mt_syd
Education, schmeducation. Our kids have more pers student spent on them in real terms than ever, and theire performance is in relative and absolute decline. 10% more spedning doesn't automaticalle = 10% better students.madmax'
A "scam" is something that's illegal, which NG is clearly not.Bizbob
What is it about people investing in property that you find so abhorrent? In our case, we are trying to have enough properties that pay significant rents for us to have a comfortable retirement - self-sufficient retirement.rattan
Explain to me how someone paying rent hurts them?rattan
Rent by definition cannot be "unaffordable", because people are paying it.Bizbob
I'm not aware of anybody in this country being forced to continue in their low wage job, held their by shackles.Crow
Once the property starts making money, you are actually paying tax on the earnings.Bizbob
The properties we have all make money, we pay tax on that marginal income.Nova4avr
The biggest bank failures in this country have been guvvament-owned bansk under Labor rule.Crow
Show me where what I said was wrong - it's a fact that those banks collapsed. And as for other countries' bansk, that's their problem.DIM
If you don't like banks, take your business elsewhere. Same as with anything.mt_syd
Yes it does, at least in part. We have a fractional reserve banking system.mahaish
I said "in part". You are right about loans being sought through bonds to loan out. But my point was still right about reserves."The public sector keeps shrinking", you say.
Hmmmm, it seems to me that there's more irritating bureacrats and busybody guvvament agencies than there ever was. There's regulations for every flippin' area of life.
And still for some, too much regulation is never enough. Because guvvament always knows best.......Curious party
Look at how many support staff are needed for every "frontline" staff in every agency.
Look at the thousands of pages of new legislation coming every year, federal, state and local.
It never ends.Eggman
Nobody ever said that capitalism is a system where everybodys' every effort wins, every investment makes money, and nobody ever loses anything.
As long as people enter into transactions willingly, and contracts are enforced and market power not abused, then capitalism is an engine of growth that no other system has yet been able to beat.Eggman
I'm just not sure why those calling for more guvvament control and intervention are just so sure that polatishans know everything - where is the evidence of this?
I'm sorry, butt  don't look at people like Tanya Plibersek or Tony Abbott and think "wow, you are so brilliant, I want you to make all my decisions for me, and take more of my money every year".If credit becomes scarce, then the price of it (the interest rate) will be bid up until a buyer and seller meet - same as with any transaction.
So what if house prices crash? Those who have bitten off more than they can chew will get hurt, and those who made careful decisions and left themselves a safety margin, and locked in low rates, will be just fine. And that's the way it should be.mt_syd
The rational choice could well be to not buy.LK
Or, they might put some effort into improving themselves or finding a job. Just a crazy thought bubble.....LK
Technology has been displacing and placing people since time immemorial.
This is no different.
Should we have banned email because it reduces the need for postmen?
What the anti-technology crowd don't realise is that when you can get certain things for cheaper, like cars or clothes, that gives you more money to spend on others, like a holiday - and that that other industry will grow.
And as for people being put out of work, then they'll just have to retrain - it was ever thus.Maryane
We already have a BIG - it's called the dole.Dapsta
Agreed. My wife is in mining in HR and has to deal with the process. All the whingers who can't be bothered doing chemical engineering or mining engineering degrees and move out here to the sticks complain when a foreigner gets it.
457s are a huge pain to get and a lot of hassle, companies would prefer to hire local but locals either don't have the degrees or won't move to where the jobs are (especially to out here in the sticks, where money is big and the cost of living very small - they don't know what they're missing).
Cue now the responses saying "it's a company's job to put someone through uni....."sdrawkcaB
The job market is just that - a market, where what you're selling is one hour of your Labor. The market giveth, and the market taketh away.
Why shouldn't someone pay someone cheaper than you if they are happy with what they get?The four doctors in my little mining town are 457s - can you please show me the unemployed Aussies whose jobs they "stole"?Dapsta
Exactly. This is something I'll be impressing heavily on my 6-week old kid as they grow up. You'd better get some pretty solid qualifications, or you'll go nowhere.
Fair? Maybe not, but that's the economy we've got.
It's not good enough for people to happily take the stuff they like from free trade, such as cheaper goods, and the internet but want to reject that which they feel threatened by. We just have to adjust.
My kid will probably end up with a job I can't imagine in a field that doesn't even exist yet.Happy Falang
Use your personal device to do it, that way it doesn't show up on the company's monitoring of your internet use.EM Laidly
I welcome the cuts in health and education - they were just unfunded commitments by Labor to spread around huge amounts of money to their public sector pals - at our expense.general disarray
Yes, I love the way the left is all about "tolerance" and "respect for others". That's why probably one in three of my replies to people replying to my original comments do not get put up, even though they contain no abuse or insults.

The crowd's booing of Abbott at a funeral was a disgrace as well, nobody's saying you have to like him or even respect him but the booing at the funeral, from "compassionate" leftists, was a disgrace.Peter of melbourne
You hit the nail right on the head. We priced ourselves out of those (mostly unskilled) jobs, and the consumers voted with their wallets, they had no moral objection to buying cheaper imports of the same or better quality.

Before people ask for pay rises, they should consider "will some bloke in Thailand do my job for a quarter of the price, can my job be exported there?".Greybags
So why did Whitlam sack his then treasurer over it?Will there be another Whitlam, you rhetorically ask?
I wasn't around then, but from what I hear, my answer is "I really hope not!".madmax
Oh I don't know, little things like 20%+ inflation, the guvvament trying to take over everything, putting alliances at risk, just minor things like that.dazonthe coast
Thanks for the reply.
What's so great about medicare, an underfunded system that'll just grow and grow and grow? I agree it has some merit though, but people with private should be allowed to opt out of it, because we pay private and public.
Education? Paying HECS is fair and reasonable, look at how many millions more you'll earn over your life for having that degree(S). And if you have to actually pay for it, you'll think carefully about if you want to do it, not just do it because it's free and you don't feel like getting a job yet.
Death penalty? Sorry, that's a state issue, nothing to do with federal guvvament.
Fair point on the pay inequality.
Environment, a gajillion regulations? Ehhh, I could do without it.

I notice you didn't mention any economic points, or putting the US alliance at risk.OMG
There is a way we hold people accountable - it's called an election.
And as much as the ABC might wish it, not everyone out in there in our country is talking about this all the time.Well if it's all balanced, what's all the whingeing about house prices about then?Sydney Bob
Lots of people have lost their private health plan because it didn't "comply" with the guvvament diktats.
Listening to the Australian media report on Obamacare should be treated like Australian media reporting on any American issue - with great suspicion, where the reporter's views leak into the story.Herkimer 
Well I don't profess to be an expert on it but I've spent plenty of time there.
I am aware of the act's correct name but nobody calls it that.
And if they were garbage plans, people wouldn't have bought them, would they? I'm just going off what I've seen reported about in the Economist and Wall St Journal, Do you have better sources?Hmmmm
I've spent plenty of time in AMerica, it's a brilliant place and the people are really good.
But I have to say I'm confused as to why, 6 years into Obama's leadership, there are any problems at all.
I thought if he would just be nice to Iran and Putin et al then they would be nice right back.
I thought if he had the guvvament interfere more and more in the economy then that would make the economy perfect.
I thought he was going to "stop the rise of our oceans and that "our planet heal"
I though he had the answers to everything, or at least he gave that impression.
And his party had TOTAL control for the first two years. Sure he can't be blamed for the state of the economy when he took office, but it's so bad now that they have little left than appeals to black solidarity as a reason to vote for him.
Or am I missing something, and it's really just those mean, nasty, conservatives' fault? Oh, and Rupert Murdoch, of course.Alpo
See polling in the Wall St Journal or other reputable source, most Americans are opposed to Obamacare.ALpo
How many boat people a year under Labor, versus how many now?Dave
American median income is still several thousand less than before the financial crash.
GJA
I don't think I mentioned who I voted for.
And besides, the American people have passed judgement by denying him the total control he had in his first two years, where his majority was big enough to pass anything he wanted.Comrade
Are you familiar with the notion of representative democracy? That it matters not whether you win the seat by 1 vote or get 100% of votes in that seat, you just get the seat. Howard in 98 and Hawke in 90 had a minority but still won more seats.
So easily you can get a minority vote but still win.

And regarding my voting, I suppose next you'll tell me that I do whatever Alan Jones or Rupert Murdcoh says, right?Comrade
Check the 2012 presidential election - a 3% difference, yet over 200 "electoral college vote" difference.
It's the same thing - again, it matters not how much you win the seat by, you just get the seat.
What is it that you're not understanding?Comrade
"Funny how these discrepancies favour the right"? 
Sorry, I didn't know Hawke was of the conservatives, here I was thinking that he was Labor.Dazza
Yes, it's a shame that Gillard's attempts to muzzle the media didn't succeed, that way us plebs could have been told the "correct" version of just how truly brilliant she and Rudd were.......Nova4avr

So I take it your one of those ones who's very big one making that other bloke pay more?
Why should anyone pay more tax? And because we have a progressive system, the well-off already pay proportionally and and absolutely more.

And before the predictable responses of "but the rich (which is never defined on this site) evade taxes", well if you have proof of that then report them.Dick
Yes, and they raised the upper rates to cancel any benefit to anybody but low earners, who were actually over-compensated for their carbon tax cost-of-living increase (which increases suspicion on the motivation of the carbon tax).Toc
So who is the all-knowing, all-wise person who gets to decide if you are worthy of having children?
Who gets to decide who gets to decide?
WIll there be compulsory sterilisations once the "approved" number of children has been reached?
These are the questions that are never answered by those advocating a population policy.

Besides, I thought that any perceived population problem has since been made sustainable - remember Julia Gillard made Tony Burke the "Minister for Sustainable Population" for a few months - wasn't that enough time to solve everything?Peaki
Your logic sounds superficially sound, but women had many more babies 50 and 60 years back, without any baby bonuses.James in Brisbane
But animal species don't have the ability to trade, do they? To learn new skills and innovate technology to solve shortages of water and food?
This is why humans can survive ad infinitum.Bizbob
I'm not "fooled".  I made a rational decision that Labor was useless. Sure, Abbott has lied, but really, they're polatishans - show me one who doesn't lie.
I'll hear back from you when you have one.Bizbob
Stopping the boats for one, cutting back on that "Gonski" (whatever the hell that actually is), spending.Paul
I'm sorry, but we've just had our first kid and I don't see why I should have to ask the guvvament's permission before we have one, two, or twenty more.
What makes you think that polatishans have some magic forumla for determining how many kids you can have (with special exemptions for themselves, of course....)orangefox
Homeowners think high prices are great.orangefox
You're right, but that number totals millions of people - and they outnumber those on the outside of the market.Ann
I never heard that the NBN's purpose, its main purpose, was job creation. Any guvvament expenditure creates jobs, but that massive white elephant would have been a hugely inefficient way to dit.
Besides, I thought the economy was doing so well under Labor (according to Labor) that there would have been no need for guvvament pump-priming, post-Swan stimulus.Ann
Those things may well be true, but for the tens of billions outlaid may not be worth it.FSM
I hardly think that you can compare the two. You're talking about societies where women can be stoned to death for being raped, you can be locked up for criticising the president, or failing to dress in the approved manner.
I hardly think that even the most wretched person in Australia can say that they have such things to worry about.Ann
"Don't they deserve to own a home too?". Um, no, why does everyone automatically deserve to own a house?
Don't you think that there's loads of people in New York, London and Tokyo who struggle to pay the rent, and the same as Sydney, have no prospect of ever owning a place?Yawn.
Yet another article complaining about how the guvvament should "do something" in relation to housing. And make sure that negative gearing gets derided - another yawn. Negative gearing has been around for decades, including periods when housing was relatively much cheaper, so you can't blame it all on neg gearing.
Let's consider how all the huge numbers of compulsory "sustainability" features of a house add huge costs to it - all of these are imposed by polatishans - the same people that are supposed to "do something" about the affordability perceived problem.
I'm not really sure that it says anywhere in the constitution that anybody has a "right" to and "affordable" (whatever that means). home.Freddie
I agree with you on land release.  But as well, it's the attitude of a lot of citizens that causes problems. And Sydney is classic for it, with that NIMBY attitude toward any more housing.Ann
It's a free market. And the fair price for a house, or any other thing that can bought or sold, is whatever the buyer and seller arrive at.
Nothing is "overpriced" if somebody will pay it. Now whether or not they were stupid to pay that price is another question, though.Lord Kelvin
It's hardly just polatishand who want high house prices. I would venture that every owner wants this.Lord Kelvin
You make some valid points. I consider my properties to be my retirement money, so I want the market to be strong.
And I sympathise with your adult children comment. Our first is one month old, I do not want 28 year-olds hanging around because they can't move out. Hence the need to eduacte children on the need to do well at school, get a high-paying career and be able to afford a home.Paul01
Here in my litlle mining town all the doctors are 457 - can you point to the queue of unemployed Aussie doctors that they displaced? They are doing this country a favour by coming out to the boondocks where Aussie doctors won't go.
And overseas students bring in bilions in export earnings by paying to attend our universities - we welcome them.
It really is wrong to blame 457 visas for unemplyment. A lot of Aussies simply will not spend years gaining a degree in fields that we need, such as engineering, and so we  need to import those people.
How is a company's job to take an unemployed yound person, put them through years of uni? If a person wants a professional job then they have to do the degree, years of study, themselves - and then they can be rewarded with a high-income job.Peter of Melbourne
I'm sorry, but any employer who "guaranteed their employees a future" was a liar anyway, although possibly not intentionally. I can imaging that there's people at Holden who've been there since the 1970s who thought they'd be there forever - but guess what, the world economy is so interconnected thesedays that nobody is quarantined from the actions of anyone else. And now that fellow is going to be out of a job.
As for manufacturing in general, textiles or cars or anything, the market (that is, the collective decisions of each and every one of us, what we buy or decline to buy) has spoken - we want value for money, and we don't have loyalty to "made in Australia". And that's fine, we all have an obligation to our families to make our money go as far as possible.
If manufacturers, or any business, want our money, then give us what we want ata price we're happy with - or you won't get our money.
The way trade is thesedays, and with the strength of our dollar, you can get more for relatively less than you ever could - and still some people complain.
This supposed golden age of manufacturing in the 70s - where our cars were ten or more years behind the American equivalent model of the same year - I'm sorry, it doesn't soudn that good to me.
And if a company needs someone with a degree, they need them now - not four years into the future for them to complete that degree. And you're not that useful for the first two years after you graduate anyway, so that's six years into the future.....
The Lioness
I'm not a lwayer, but I know this much - a lwayer's job is to fight as hard as they can for their client, within the boundaries of the law. That's what I paid for in a bitter relationship spilt, and so did the ex- the ex might not have liked the outcome, but both our lawyers did what we paid for.Ann
When I decided on what I wanted to do with my life, I accepted that it would take years of study. The reward would be lifetime of earnings triple or quadruple what I'd get if I didn't have that degree. Doing that degree says to a prospective employer "this young man or woman is committed, they've already committed years at their own expense completing the degree".
That sorts the dedicated from the "I want it handed to me on a plate" people.Graeme
How I attained my degree? Through a university, you do the work, they give you degree.
My parents' input? None, they didn't do my assignments for me or anything, I did them. They paid $0 of the cost of my degree, I repaid it through the HECS system (as we all should).
My place of birth? Right here, the best country in the world.
It's not that difficult, you decide what degree you want and you do the work. The committed will make it, the slackers will drop out.Tristan
It's not enough for people to be qualified - they have to be prepared to move to where the jobs are - and many Aussies (not all) won't do that.Stockel
Germany is successful at manufacturing because they are so good and efficient at making high-value stuff. Plus their use of the euro currency, which is weaker than a stand-alone German currency would, makes their exports very competitive.
People are prepared to pay for and insist on brands like Mercedes, BMW. They give people what they want at a price that the consumer is prepared to pay.Realist
I have similar experience to you, putting up with those jobs that others thought "beneath" them because you knew it was just a temporary thing to pay the bills until you graduate and move up in life.
It's just such an alien concept to so many on here though - they just can't abide the notion that people are ultimately responsible for their OWN lives - and that if it's not your job to assume ultimate responsibility for how your life turns out, then whose responsibility is it? Actually that's rhetorical, I can hear the answer now "It's the guvvament's job to fix peoples' lives...."Hi Ann
I'm not old but not young, still on the good side of 40. And there's still loads of opportunities in our society.HPH
Sorry, but I'm not sure what you're saying - is your life story proof of our society having oodles of opportinity, not enough, what?Grumpy
I think you'll find that upper earners just had their tax increased.....Jess
Media barons are having their influence and power diluted at a rate faster than any time. How many people under 30 actually even buy papers?
You have more diversity and choice, courtesy of the innanet, than ever.Ann
How has Murdoch got the power to force people how to vote? It's one preson one vote, no matter how rich you are.
I made up my own mind on election day, nobody put a gun to my head about how to vote."Free" health care, huh?
That's funny, I thought the federal guvvament confiscated 1.5% of my income for it. Actually, starting this financial year, it's now 2% isn't it?
And that to make the system of "free" stuff "sustainable", people who earn greater than the huge sum of 50K have to then take aout private insurance or get slammed with another "levy surcharge".Bah, humbug
Here in my little mining town, it's 3 hours to the nearest regional centre.
We out here pay a lot more because our incomes are higher, yet if you have a non-urgent problem it might be at least a week until you can see the doc (nothing against the docs, there is only so many of them for our town, and they are working hard and have to share the on-call roster for our hospital).
So we pay a lot and get not very much. I'd like to see those of us who have private insurance be allowed to opt out of the public system. Why should we have to pay for things twice......?Bizbob
At the mine I work at, we are saving several million dollars a year due to the abolition of that insidious tax.
So us people who work in the industry, and those who depend on our operation are happy.JamesH
I don't pay the account but I go to meetings where these things are discussed and was told this by the relevant person, it's also in our company's publicly available accounts.Amber
You are so right, I'm so sick of hearing about how they "create" jobs. The levels of subsidy are so high that it would be cheaper for the guvvament to pay the employees 100K a year to stay home and watch TV.
And the nerve of these "renewable" company proprieters, to act as if they're perforiming some kind humanitarian good deed by seeking huge subsidies and handouts, is simply sickening.
Let them raise their own money. If what they're working on is so great, and such a winner, there should be investors tripping over themselves to risk their own money.....mt_syd
I actually responded to your comment on subsidies but the moderator wouldn't allow it (seems to happen a lot to me).
As for a plan when resources run out, we don't need one, the market, if allowed to operate, will provide energy.mt_syd
"Business does not take long term risks on the kind of blue sky research that is necessary."
Is that right? So Steve Jobs didn't have Apple spend billions developing the iPhone? Henry Ford didn't spend the equivalent of billions perfecting mass production of the internal combustion engine?
If business smells a profit opportunity, which it would if alternate energy sources were needed, then they will work toward being the ones to make that profit. It's called competition, and it produces innovation and that's what drives growth.
They would do this without subsidy.TrevorN
Agree 100%. Here in my little mining town, I have NEVER been given a receipt for work carried out at home such as lawnmowing, housepainting, plumbing, handyman work, etc. Now whether those fellows faithfully declared what I paid them as income I don't know, as I didn't ask, but as I was never given receipts for any of this work then it's as if it were never done.
If a tree falls in the forest and no-one's around, does it make a sound?
If a person provides a service, and no receipt was given, is the income declared, and then tax paid on it (GST collected, and income tax by the person who received the income)?GreyBags
Isn'rt it a mystery though, how he won so many elections? So many people here can't comprehend it, how he won, because they and everybody that they know votes Labor or Green.
And it's the same when people damn Margaret Thatcher - they forget that she won huge victories, which the PEOPLE granted her, because the people knew that all the left promises of "everything for free, and it'll be paid for by .....someone else" didn't work out.The Pav
You have every right to disagree with his policies, but I find it a little galling when people will say that a certain polatishan "only" got elected because they "tricked" people - as if no right-thinking person could possibly believe in the policies.
And for you to assert that people were "tricked", but you weren't, means that you are saying that you have some kind of special insight that others lack - you're not saying that though, are you?Avargo
Whitlam asserted that quality of life comes not from what you can provide for yourself, but what the "community" (in other words, the all-knowing, all-wise guvvament) provides.
Sorry, but I would prefer to be the one to make decisions for myself and family. We know best what we want to spend our money that we earned on, not polatishans.madmax
If you don't like Murdoch's journalism, avoid it. I'm happy to pay for the Wall St Journal, the Australian and The Economist (although that's not Murdoch) because I feel I can trust them.
Yes the editorial line is centre-right, but I trust the reporting to be accurate. And frequently in The Aus, they criticise Abbott for spending too much, and breaking promises.
And also, they have to compete in a mraket to get income - unlike some other news sources.
And for all the talk about how Murdoch gets to decide who governs a counrty, show me one voter who said "I'm voting for &lt;insert name&gt; because Murdoch said I should".
And if people complain that he's too dominant, then any person is free to seek investors and start their own rival media outlet.struck dumb
So that young boy holding a severed head, that's just an everyday thing right, nothing to get concerned over?MIK
Has it ever occurred to you that we have had no terrorist attack successfully executed BECAUSE we spend money on guarding against it?Knee
I'm not really sur what money the guvvament could spend to stop some fellow losing the plot and killing over a neighbourhood dispute.....monitoring his email or suspending his passport probably wouldn't have helped.Frank
Agree 100%. The over-the-top doomsday scenarios spread by Gore, Tim Flannery et al that do not come to pass is why the public is now so dubious on climate change (and before people reply, I do have a poll to back that up - it's called the 2013 election).
And the irony of Obama, who dismissed Iraq as a "dumb war", and hastily drew down troops, now having to deal with Iraq as a major issue is exquisite. He knew better, he told everyone - and now look what happened.fredn
I don't profess to be an authority on climate change, but I have a science degree, which encourages critical thinking and questioning of assumptions, and I cannot be satisfied that the "science is settled".Farside
Agree, and sorry to nitpick but he had two terms.For all the whingeing about politicians, we get the ones we deserve. It's too easy to blame politicians, because if they were actually honest about things like "if you want more services, YOU (not just some other bloke) have to pay more", "no, I have no control over the cost of living (but I can tax you less, but you must then expect less)", then I suspect that they'd struggle to get elected.
Politicians, like everyone, have responded to incentives, and deliver what they perceive we want to hear, and whoever does that the best gets the prize.
I'd love to see someone with real vision, not of how they know best and all the great things that they'll do, but with the opposite vision - of how much less they'll do, of how much less guvvament there'll be in my life, and so on - but as both parties have converged to the centre, and with nearly half the population getting some kind of welfare, it's unlikely.Yeah, you're right I suppose. Although I wonder if the people damning the register, some of whom make some reasonable points, would feel that way if it were their 6-year old who had been sodomised.nameless
I was thinking the same thing as I read it.Nova
I could do without polatishans and their great ideas. In a lot of cases, if they just left things alone, things would work out better (and much cheaper for us taxpayers).Eggman
Failed according to who? Show me a time in history when people were as prosperous, either or relatively or absolutely, as they are now.whatif 
So Whitlam has some kind of ownership of "human rights" does he?I wonder if the author of this article is the one who came up with that great, unforgettable line by Gillard "because we are us".
Zany
Could you please explain to me the difference between an investor and a speculator? The former apparently is respectable, and the latter cursed. I've never been clear about the demarcation though - they both want to make money.No time like the future
Neg Gear. is a very middle class thing to do these days, it is hardly the preserve of the "rich".
And "rich" is never defined on this blog.Gravy
Here in my little mining town we bought a huge place with a huge yard, looks great, all for less than the price of a 40 year-old Bondi studio that has no parking space.
There's loads of jobs in some places.bozo25
We think the same - I love the 10 minute drive to work, no traffic. And we earn a hell of a lot more in mining than we would in Syd, and our mortgage is tiny. You can win both ways, on your income and your spending.
And these days with online shopping, nothing is impossible to get, like it would have been 30 years ago.Econ
So trure - these people calling for less population are perhaps not so keen to do their bit - and leave.Paul
Sorry if I misunderstood, but it sounded like you were welcoming the fact that many were dying, and many more could do so (as long as they are some anonymous stranger, not you and yours). Apologies for any offence.mike j
So are you saying that before you consider buying a house, even if you can easily afford it, then you shouldn't because you are shafting young Jakxsyn and Taylah out of their "right" to a home?
Or is a seller supposed to reject a superior offer from a middle-aged person and accept 20% less, the most that Jakxsyn and Taylah could afford, because that seller has some kind of duty to Jakxsyn and Taylah?
Sure, that will happen.....keyboard warrior
You're right, a recession will make house prices. That will be welcome, at least for those who actually have a job....hidi
Yes, I'm a little dubious about the author's credentials on housing. Especially if he had anything to do with that indigenous housing programme, with the guvvament manageing the whole project for just 900K a house. Bravo sir, could you hook me up with a bargain place?Ann
No it doesn't, unless we're talking extraordinary measures such as quantitative easing, as Japan, America and Bank of England have done. Otherwise it's a fractional reserve banking system. The physical money is not the same as money supply.As a conservative, I'm against bailouts and subsidies, so this article is a worry, if its contents are accurate.
But let's stop this fallacy that markets somehow "failed" in the GFC - they did what they are supposed to do, which in that case meant a lot of risk that had been underpriced came back to bite the people who took bad risks. Unfortunately, those persons got away without penalty because they were bailed out.
I agree that the market should have been allowed to work, but that's easy to say in hindsight I suppose.Ann
There's truth in what you're saying, but as long as the transaction was entered into freely then that's capitalism - whether we're talking about buying a house or a pack of chewy.
And what hasn't had much of a mention is the massive failure of guvvament regulators in America - those storied institutions who are supposed to keep everyone honest - now where were they? That is what people forget when they argue "if only the guvvament would get more involved, then bad things wouldn't happen......"Define "fair". Is it someone with no skills can't get a job that pays enough for a four bedroom place 20 minutes from work and the city and two cars?
Is it people who work and save and sacrifice and don't have to have the latest phone or biggest TV getting ahead?
And when, oh when, was this supposed golden age of fairness that supposedly existed?Kacer
"what about the ethical business people?". People on this site believe that there is no such thing, every person with money only got that way by ripping off some poor unsuspecting person!RayS
Gerry Harvey, Dick Smith (although they both whinge a lot), Kerry Stokes, Frank Lowy. Would you like more?Mitor the bold
It's a free labour market, we're all free to quit our jobs any old time we want.....sheoakbloke
Your second last sentence claims people "help themselves to more". I'm sorry, but that is stealing, and what rich person is stealing out of your pockets?Dr Who
What would happen then is that the pay needed to attract people to those professions would increase to the point where people started coming back - that's how markets work, be it for labour or consumer goods or anything. The buyer and seller will work out a price for the exchange based on supply and demand.Kacer
Agreed, middle income people using car and business allowances, and doing jobs for cash is huge. Here in my little mining town, I think about all of the work I have had done at home such as plumbing, lawns, house painting and so forth, amounting to thousands, and never, not once, have I been given a receipt. So even though there is no record of that work ever having been done, I'm sure the guys still faithfully declared it to the tax office and duly paid the applicable rate of income tax.......they wouldn't just pocket the cash now would they?Godbothered
I pay what the supplier says, and I didn't ask for a receipt because the work is NOT tax deductible. Then it's up to that small business person (who is not part of "the rich") to self-report their tax. I have no ide what their politics is.
I don't think that these home handymen and plumbers are gardeners have private jets or anything though.Dean
I second your comment. All these surveys are worthless. because they ask a general question that requires nothing sacrificed of the respondent.
For those who say "inequality is bad, the guvvament should encourage more wealth redistribution" - here's a follow-up question - "so how much do YOU give to charity, since you care so much (putting your $$$ where your mouth is)"? Or, how much more tax are YOU (not some other bloke) prepared to pay? Because the actual honest answer to both, in millions of cases, is ZERO!
It's like when surveys purport  to show that "the majority" want to see some low-paid job get paid more, say childcare workers. An obvious follow-up question is "well how much more per day are you prepared to pay to have a stranger mind your kid so that they can have that pay rise". "uhhhhh".
Or people lamenting the decline of our uncompetitive manufacturers, whilst ignoring the fact that they contributed to that demise by (quite justifiably) buying imports and so on.
Just meaningless fluff.barsnax
Clarification - I meant that all the bogus survey talk and hand-wringing is just "meaningless fluff".
As for the laid off workers, their companies didn't produce things efficiently, or produced things we didn't want, like say large 6 cylinder cars.
I work in mining, and if my employer gets inefficient then it's for me to recognise that and call it quits, or stay to the end and wear the consequences.
But let's also remember that many of these workers are walking out with hundreds of thousands in redundancies....Mr davis
I have no idea how trustwortyh your figures are, but we're talking about Australia, not America.
And as for putting your money where your mouth is, I mean  people being prepared to pay more to back up what they tell survey-takers. If you don't want to pay more tax, and I don't, then that is fine but don't try to make yourself sound virtuous by saying that you would.barsnax
I do agree that the well-off should pay their "fair share" - so let's start cutting the rates accordingly.barsnax
You bet I am. My wife and I pay a combined 2K a week - we're doing alright, but we believe that that's too much. And we don't have many deductions (our properties actually make money, so we're not part of the hated negative gearing class.Mr / Mrs / Miss Duster
Thanks for the replies to my comments. Port access is user-pays, and we pay for water use - there is no flat fee or freebies.D.G
Where does the 200 figure come from? Why that much or that little?
Are you familiar with the concept of a market for labour setting a wage?
Or do you think the guvvament, who knows everything, should decide who gets what for their work in the private sector of the economy?Joe the Lion
Those workers, same as everyone else, are free to seek greener pastures any time they wantSharnyl
Degrees get done on credit, and you only pay it back when your income hits a certain level.
Sure the price is increasing, but this argument that peopla can't afford it is bogus.100 degrees
 I think you'll find the top rate actually just increased.Alpo
Perhaps if everyone made equal effort then your argument would have merit, but they don't. And sure bad and good things sometimes hapen out of luck, or what we attribute to luck but perhaps contributed to ourselves.
But even then, it's up to us to make provisions for those bad events.
prison
Luck, good or bad, can affect us all. But ultimately your work ethic largely determines your life, and your willingness to take risks.
I'm not seeking to punish anybody whose business failed, but they knew the risks when they started.Mr Davis
I'm not sure if you know or not, but there is a fellow called Barack Obama who was raised by a single mother......Well, if they supplied something that people want and people freely bought it, then that's their reward - material success.
It sounds like you don't want to see people do well.Freddi Frog
Exactly. And why is it, if being poor is so tough, that a greater proportion of poor people than any other income group smoke? Have any other people ever wondered that?Alpo
There's this thing called a free will.....and we're all born with it. Sure quitting is tough, but it's up to you. And it's not like only poor people have stress in their lives, since you attribute their proclivity for an expensive, destructive habit that they can ill-afford to stress.
My point is that if you can afford to smoke, you have no right complaining about how poor you are, because you clearly have plenty to throw away, so don't whinge because if you were that hard-up, you'd quit and instantly have significantly more $$$$Mr Davis
 WHne you have multi-billions (and good luck to him for being so successful), you can afford to wax philosophical about how everyone should pay more.....Mr Davis
Fair point. Although I wonder if Mr Buffet wants all those extra taxes he's calling for to be retrospective, back to when he started out.anote
Poverty is not pre-ordained. Anybody is free to improve their lot, go to uni and get a degree on credit even if you grew up on welfare, move to some boomtown where the jobs are plentiful, things like that.
My first kid arrived last month, and she was born with a brain and a free will, same as we all were. We'll do our best parenting but how her life turns out will be most directly affected by her choices.Graeme
Agreed, choosing poor parents is one of the most expensive mistakes you can make.
But really, short of sterilising everybody below a certain income level, what can guvvament do?
Again, it's the drive to better one's lot that drives your life and the economy at large....anote
Sure there will be many influences, some good, aome bad. But the parents set the example.
If my wife and I whinge in front of her about how everything is the guvvament's fault or job to fix, she'll think that.
If we explain the clear link between reward and effort, she'll understand that (and the opposite link, between lack of reward and lack of effort).Mr Spigot
Of course Gina had more opportunity, but that poor kid is free to improve their lot.
Study hard, stay in school.
And this is where parenting is important - they need to set the example of work and saving.Jerry
So over 100 million people in America are incarcerated, is that what you're saying?
I thought it was more like 2 million.....Clete
You are so right. And the thing about these online "polls" is that they are self-selecting, so right there, they are not representative because most know little and care less about the poll, or who conducts it, and therefore don't take part.Duniya
Your use of the adjective "unlucky" indicates a belief that we have no control over how our lives turn out. Sure you can't help who your parents are or what they earn, but you sure have choices about how far you go in school, when you can afford to have kids, whether you'll move to take a job, and so on. We're all born with a brain and a free will.Amber
Exatly. There was once a perfect society where all were perfectly equal - it was called the Soviet Union, although as I understand, it didn't work out so wel.....Freddi Frog
That definition of "rich" seems all too true. And I have answer to the question of who should be the one to wear ALL of the pain of fixing the budget, one that I believe will be agreeable to everyone - that other bloke should pay more tax / lose benefits and tax breaks!
How does that sound?Peter of melbourne
We, the consumer, drive manufacturers offshore when we, perfectly rationally, buy the import that we consider best value for money. Or did the manufacturer do it to themselves by failing to give us, the consumers, what we want at a price we're prepared to pay. There's no sinister "other" who did it, we all took part.
And as for foreign competitors having less safety and enviro regulations, which all cost money, well that's something that we all have to weigh up when we demand that polatishans / guvvaments "do something" when we perceive a problem.Peter
First, I work in a profession in mining. But so what, are you saying people who work at McD's are inferior - that's not nice.
I think you'll find that cars today are hugely more reliable than they used to be. 
And as for things that may not last, well, that's for the customer to decide whether they consider that important - because for a lot of things now, it's cheaper to just buy new.
I do have a grasp of reality, and it's this - and if you want my money, give me a deal.
And you haven't refuted my point about how we, the consumers have passed our collective judgement.Bizbob
How does some company who sells us things that we freely buy take advantage of us? If you don't like what companies sell, don't give them your money.Bizbob
Your reply makes no sense. You might not want to give a company your money, that's fine, but if others do then that's their business. Who is being exploited?Gary Coe
So true, the harder we work, the luckier we get.
And also, the older I get then the better I was....Nobody forced anybody to use that lawyer, and if the lawyer gets a win for their client, how was anyone "exploited"?Nobody forced anybody to use that lawyer, and if the lawyer gets a win for their client, how was anyone "exploited"?Tony T
Exactly. There's also a paradox where many people deride the "rich" as being greedy, for having the nerve to want to keep more of their OWN money, but feel it perfectly reasonable to demand chunks of OTHERS' money to be redistributed to them.....but that's NOT greed, it's just "fair" or "common sense".Both parties have some good and bad ideas, neither is perfect of completely wrong.
But I have serious concerns that Labor will attempt, again, to revive their attempts to control the media.
Every year, it seems we give away a little more freedom to the constantly expanding state.....Nonsense, you have more consumer choice now than at any time in history.
And we have defamayion laws for people who are aggrieved by the media coverage of them - this idea of a so-called "independent" monitor is laughable, like something they have in North Korea.
And whilst the federal workforce may have shrunk, the state ones just seem to grow and grow.
polony
Yes, let's be thankful for the Greens.
They decry the impact of money in politics, then accept the biggest single donation in history (from the wotif.com founder).
They decry a lack of transparency in politics, and don't allow the media to cover their conferences.
They want a price on carbon, and sabotaged Rudd's attempt to legislate it.
Yes, bless them.Stuffed Olive
A lot of us conservatives think that Jones is a boring old windbag, and don't give a hoot what he says.
He does not speak for any political party, he has no official capacity to do so.By that logic, I could judge any political party by the behaviour of any of its members.
He is not a spokesperson officially.David Kay
Margaret Thatcher never played the victim of misoginy. She actually had some class (and ability).will_r
Conservatism is about the belief that individual is more important than the state, that people, not polatishans or beyooracrats know best, and that people should be free to determine their own futures.I agree - if what you're doing as an adult doesn't hurt anyone but you, what do I care? I am a libertarian conservative, and therefore could support gay marriage because it's between consenting adults and thus their business.Rebecca
"Labor doesn't launch vindictive crusades"?
What do you call their attempt to implement legislation to control the media?I also have concerns about that new legislation.Bill
I don't recall ever stating who I vote for.Mr Toogood
Polls, schmolls.
There's a gazillion polls out there and some are quite contradictory.
I don't trust the reliability of many of them.
Polls used to allegedly show that people want action on climate change. Ms Gillard found out that that was not the case.bononzo
I even don't trust the reliability of the ones that reflect my worldview. A lot of polls now are self-selecting, where you have to go out of your way to participate, and therefore are not representative of the society at large.v
Labor robbed us voters of our chance to slam Rudd in 2010 and 2013, notwithstanding the fact that your comment is accurtae.Correction - slam Gillard in 2013Dave
yes, those policies that had double-digit inflation throughout the 80s, the 18% mortgage rates and the "recession we had to have". Let's raise our glasses to them.....Dave
I agree that Howard was a cowardly treasurer working for an inept PM, but my statements are accurate - mortgage rates were never higher than under Hawke (yes I know they were capped earlier, and so the "market" rate would have been higher).Albo
Federal elections are every 3 years.I am extremely suspicious of all "surveys" that we get presented with several times a week.
They are to be taken with a large grain of salt.
And stop the presses - an article damning Abbott, gee, it's been a while hasn't it.Crow
People who consume Murdoch's news, including myself, choose to pay for it, because we are happy with the quality.
The ABC however, gets my money without my consent.......Dom
It's one person, one vote, regardless of income or assets.Hi Ceelly
Do you know anyone who says "I voted this way because &lt;insert name of media source&gt; told me to"? Neither do I.
You would also be aware that media circulation is declining quite rapidly in the last decade, which would mean that they have less influence than ever.Mr Toogood
The editorial line is generally right wing, but The Australian has uncovered things that embarrassed Howard, such as the "children overboard" business, Haneef affair as well.Applauanam
What about the 200 house fires, and thousands of other poor installations that were discovered before they could cause damage?Alpo
This country has a problem with too many people decrying what they perceive to be "greed" (because they can't stand to see someone doing better than them), but see no contradiction with then demanding that others' income is redistributed to them.Rosie
Why do you say that the wealth was acquired dishonestly? What evidence is there of this?I am a conservative, and there are many of us who think that Jones and his ilk are blowhard know-alls, and don't give a hoot what he says.
Also, there are plenty of conservatives who feel that the present guvvament are just the classic big-government Libs of old, just talking a good line about individual liberty.
Left and right should be alarmed about the criminalising of speech.Sea Monster
The East Asia quote is George Orwell.Jonathan
I'll take the word of The Wall St Journal, The Economist and The Australian any day over the ABC (although ABC news is the only TV news I watch, even though the slightly superior tone irks me it as at least able to be taken seriously).
I'm quite sure that all intelligent people know to take tabloids with a grain of salt, that they are not to be taken 100% seriously.
And yes, shock jocks are trash but so what, it's a free country, everyone's free to turn them off."Unbiased"
Yes, that's what Gillard's attempts at controlling the media would have ensured - what a shame they didn't happen.Paul01
Those laws are alarming, in my view.Answer
If you don't like Murdoch, don't read his papers.
Simple, but at least you have the right to choose.Algernon
Anyone is free to start a newspaper to rival him.Marg
Media is held to account by its consumers - the threat of them not consuming if they produce bad quality.
There's also defamation laws for any who feel aggrieved.John
If you want to live a hairshirt existence then that's up to you, but plenty of us don't, including those of us who work in the industry most hated by those on this site (it starts with "m", rhymes with "signing").Cheers John, sorry about that!Reinhard
I thought it was Rudd's ineptitude and his colleagues who brought him undone?Gumlass
I'm sorry but how did they buy our democracy any more than other group pushing their own interests, such as unions, Greenpeace, polatishans spending OUR money on "awareness of guvvament policies" (that they all decry when in opposition, yet go strangely quiet on once in guvvament.....Rusty Cairns
Yes, they do make mistakes, but so what - it's private money, they can do what they want with it, and the share price will reflect that.I agree 100% that we get the polatishans we deserve. We need to change our attitude from "I want more guvvament spending and some other bloke to pay for it". 
ALthough I don't share your admiration for Oakshott, Slipper, Windsor, et al - "independent" used to have connotations of honour, courage, decency - the last mob destroyed that image!Hi Oaktree

Sorry, but I'm glad to see the car industry go. If it was so good, then why have we all stopped buying them? It's because the imported version is, in our collective view, better for money.
That industry is a massive drain, and the rest of us forced to pay more for cars than we really had to, and prop it up with 30 billion in direct subsidy just in last 15 years, are not "happy taxpayers".We know what the effects will be - we'll finally be able to buy cars without tariffs, like we should have been able to all along.
WHy should we pay tax to pay people to make things we have shown we don't want to spend after after-tax dollars to pay for?
They should've made what people wanted, although even then they wouldn't have been able to do without subsidy and tariff protection.Oaktree
You didn't answer - why should we subsidise production of things people don't want to buy?
Just to avoid some undefined ill-social effect? Like what?Oaktree
OK, but I disagree. We the people have voted with our wallets and rejected what they were offering. Perhaps if they'd offered what the customer wanted, they'd have done better.
But they didn't because they were protected from competitive pressures through OUR subsidising of them.
And now they're finished. All that billions spent for nothing.
And if those factories didn't exist, the kid thinking of dropping out of school early top go and work there will have to think twice, and maybe get further educated - which overall is good for the economy.mt_syd
Yes, those people who saved and worked and provided for their own future, I agree. Tax them into oblivion, I sayMick

Perhaps we ought to try to be more like France. The polatishans there keep telling people "if only we ran even bigger deficits, everything would be perfect". It's up to the rest of the world to finance their 35 hour week and extravagant social system, all done on borrowed money, but that's OK......as long as I'm gone by the time it all falls apart.Patrick
That "Tax Justice" report was funded by many organisations who themselves pay no tax. Unions, charities, and son.
And it is so full of holes and bogus figures that it is useless.Hi Ann

I'm not prepared to pay more for inefficiently supplied, distant guuvament services that I'll never use. What's wrong with people paying for what they use (over and above a basic social safety net).
My wife and I pay combined 2K a week - that's enough, we feel.v

I love some commenters like yourself tout your compassion, then deride those who work in occupations that you deem unworthy (making coffee, pushing hamburgers). At least those people aren't getting a massive taxpayer subsidy, those businesses succedd or fail on their own.

And why should car workers be a protected species? That industry has benefited to the tune of tens of billions over the years in subsidies, and tariff protection that made us all pay more for cars. What makes them so special compared to the guy making burgers who just lost his job when his employer closed?

People have voted with their wallets - they don't want the cars made, here, the manufacturers didn't heed the trend, now they are finished (or at least, now that their final demand for subsidy was rejected, they ar finished).I agree that it's easier to sell the idea of sending people to war than asking for more tax.
And it's simple - for the great bulk of us, it's that other bloke putting his life on the line, and so it doesn't affect many.
And as for paying more tax, well, that does affect me and I don't want it.
That attitude is selfish but eminently logical.Ann

Reading the international comparisons of our students' performance, it has declined at a time when funding has been significantly increased in real terms over the last decade. That would indicate that their is no neat correlation between funding and performance, even though it intuitively makes sense that more funds help.
If there is a correlation between funding and performance, let's reduce the funding and see what happens, perhaps.Mark
Agree 100%. It seems that "depression" is the new "bad back".
I tell you what makes me depressed - thinking that there's nearly one million people in this country who are allegedly so damaged that they can't work.Singapore has a 15% flat tax, and one of the highest living standards in the world.carbon-based lifeform
Using a "loophole" is legal. A loophole is an inadequacy in a law, but it's not illegal to use it - if you want to complain about what you perceive to result in not paying a "fair" share, then complain to polatishans - those who write the laws.
In fact, I'd like to hear your sources for your statement about high-income earners being "welfare cheats". If you are aware of illegal tax avoidance, then there is a reporting facility on the tax office website, you should use it to do a oublic service.Why would they?
Because it pays $260 more than the dole, and has no job search requirement. Poor people respond to economic incentives too.Ginny
My sentiments exactly. There are so many on this site and in our country who think that they are entitled to what someone else earned.
And so many who want all the upside of guvvament decisions, but want that other bloke to be the one to make all the sacrifices.Val Doxan
I mean people who think that other's earnings should be redistributed to them.
People who would rather complain about how that other bloke doesn't "deserve" what he's got, and therefore is should be redistributed to "me", instead of improving their incomes through studying, moving to take a better job, actually saving, and so n...Gary
So what if it is? It's still theirs. My gripe is against those who simply won't seek to improve themselves and their prospects, but want their lot improved by having a slice of someone else's pie redistributed to them by the guvvament.
That is greed, wanting someone else's money, instead of seeking to earn your own.That's right Ann, nobody has a right to look at what someone else has and say "they don't deserve it", providing that it was acquired by legal means.
I know that that's a concept that a lot of commenters on this site just can't abide, though. For many, everybody who has anything got it by ripping off some poor soul, never by their own efforts or risk-taking.We both agree that greed is seeking something that others have without their consent. I'm sorry, but is a landlord expecting rent "greedy"? Should I let my tenants stay for free?
Tenants, to use your example, are there of their own free will, us having agreed on a rent - nobody held a gun to their or my head. We agreed to that freely, and we both get something out of the arrangement. That's capitalism.Hi RobW
How are wages being manipulated?Gerard
The board of RBA is independent, they make the rate decisions.Mick
Good points, agree 100%. And what about how people accuse those who save and work hard, but just want to be able to keep more of what they earn of being "greedy".
But yet so many look at what someone else has, from working and studying and saving and investing, and declaring, outraged, that that person doesn't "deserve" it. No, they're just greedy, so the guvvament should take what they've got and redistribute to me - that's not me being greedy though, I just "deserve" it. Just because.Darren
Caveat emptor - let the buyer beware. Nobody put a gun to anybody's head and ordered them to buy.Rob
Who are "they"?Rob
"financial capitalism" is not a person or group of people. I'm still not sure who the "they" you're unhappy with is, though.There's not just two certainties vis-a-vis housing.
There's at least one more - people whingeing on this site about how THEY can't afford a house, and if THAT OTHER BLOKE can it's because HE'S greedy. Oh, and negative gearing should be banned.So who gets to decide who gets to reproduce?
And who gets to decide who gets to decide who gets to reproduce?All this whingeing about negative gearing - you can't just blame it for rising property prices, otherwise they would have been at this elevated level for the WHOLE TIME that neg gearing existed, which isn'the caase.
People commenting on the Drum often urge to listen to science - well one central tenet of science is that correlation DOESN'T equal causation. That is, neg gearing alone doesn't equal high prices.
And on another subject, what is it about central bankers and baldness? It seems like it's almost a job requirement or something.Bloody L
Has it ever occurred to you that people simply agree with the policy, and that's why they vote for it?
Or is that impossible - people couldn't possibly like the policy, they just do what they're told to think by Murdoch, or let me guess, the "shock jocks".
If you believe that, then you must see yourself as having some special insight that "nitwits" don't have - what's it like to have that special insight?GJA
The electorate is no longer going to conned by the climate change main chancers and rent seekers.
Sorry for the climate change gravy train riders, but it's finished.
The public is sick of it. Or at least, enough of us are who have the power to swing the election result.Din
Exactly. So many want these things (if you believe these surveys, which we all should be highly dubious of). AS long it's that other bloke has to pay for it.Ted
Feel free to put YOUR money on the line investing in these "renewable" companies - if you're right, the rest of us suckers will miss out and you'll get rich. And if private companies want to invest private money in fossil fuels, then let them - and if they're wrong, they'll go bust. That's capitalism. It's only shareholders who'll get hurt, and according to a lot of posts here anyway, they're just greedy and we should delight in them getting hurt.Solartite
I don't think the Indian and Chinese prime minister and president, who respectively also skipped the conference, will be scolding our PM.Hi JohnnoH
According to the 2013 election result I'm not in the minority. That is a far more valid poll than some tinpot media poll.Gerard oosterman
The Chinese and Inidan presidents skipped it too. As is their right. Them skipping it is rarely mentioned in the green / left / ABC circles.Prison
You will be interested to know that News Ltd is pursuing carbon neutrality itself.
And media bias according to whose view of bias? Were you infavour of Gillard's attempts to control the media?Alpo
I don't ever hear anyone say that they want borders relaxed, in conversation.
I hear lots of "experts" and know-all journalists saying and writing articles, but they are just one person, one vote, same as all of us, regardless of income or education level.
I think that yes we will see people passing judgement at the election. The result may surprise some people who can't conceive Abbott getting a second term, since everybody that they know votes Labor or greens.Hmmmmmm
The "experts" are at it again, telling us plebs that we have no "right" to expect our guvvament to protect OUR borders.
People voted for the boats being stopped. "But you can't, you won't stop them", we were told by any number of "experts", academics, know-all journalists (who don't seem to want to just report these days, they must tells us their views) and various others.
Well they have been stopped. How any Labor person has the nerve to criticise our current border regime is beyond me.
Given their performance, I'd be embarrassed to ever have to talk about it.
