In a conflict, how long to you think you have to verify a potential enemy before they verify it for you with their fire?

Ukraine is in a state of war.  People are not going to go through administrative procedures.  The logic of the Ukrainian was probably

1 - We dont have jets
2 - That is a jet
3 - It is not ours
4 - A jet that is not ours is our enemies

I doubt there is sufficient sleep during wartime and there is certainly going to be stress and fear.  In many ways it is predictable that he fired given the circumstances.Johnno, you are assuming all sleep deprived and stressed out rebels remember an international flight route.  Why?

Then you think rebels who do not want to be part of Ukraine would communicate with Ukrainian Air Traffic Control.  Why would rebels do that?  They do not recognize the Ukrainian government as having authority over them.  Communicating with a government they are fighting when a plane is approaching (which could be armed) is a ridiculous move.  

Civilians die during wars.  Civilian planes are not exempt.  It will be interesting to see what risk analysis was performed by airlines.  If the analysis is done by people who believe rebel groups communicate with small government departments whilst exchanging fire and not recognizing the government departments authority, there is very likely grounds for a law suit.And probably 300 drunk drivers made it home safely last night.  It is still a foolish move to drive home drunk or fly over an area of active combat.Russia has jets
Ukranian rebels do not.  Why would they assume the jet is on their side or innocent?Old Timer, how long does a bullet or missile take to reach you?

Less than a second.  

2-3 minutes is asking for an armed side to willingly kill themselves without causing any damage to the other side.  Its a ridiculous expectation for a rebel group to follow during a war.  

Plus, who in the rebels group would have this technology?  They are not part of Ukraine and would not communicate with the Ukrainian government on such a matter.  They are using hand held firearms, not well structured tanks, airplanes and government offices.  

Furthermore if any radar helps give away their positions, they furthermore wont use it.  

Knowing they do not have a plane means the plane in the sky is not theirs.  During a war, if something is not yours, it is most likely your enemies.  No need to risk dying hundreds of times just to confirm that.Im afraid you dont get it Old Timer
2-3 minutes in active combat.  You dont have 2-3 seconds.  

The idea that someone would spend that time and probably miss their target IF their target did not see them
AND willingly offer the enemy a free strike is ridiculous.  

Dont apply civilian sensibilities to an active war zone.  Any war plane 33,000ft in the air can still launch missiles or use spy equipment.  

In combat I expect many people to shoot first and ask questions later.  That is what occurred and will keep on occurring in combat zones around the world.  The only reason you hear about this one is because some Australians where killed.  If it was a Ukrainian school bus instead of a army jeep I doubt the ABC or any Australian media would have reported it.Why does no one speak of the other aspect.

Is it a smart idea to fly over a war zone?

Flying over a conflict where planes and helicopters have already been shot down is risky business.  If there is a war going on in a territory, wouldnt it be smarter and safer for aircraft to fly AROUND it?  What is the big need to enter Ukraine?

No one flies over North Korea for that reason.  In a war that has been going on for months, is it really unexpected that someone is a bit jumpy and shoots first before asking questions later?  

I am sure many Ukrainian civilians have died due to premature shooting in Ukraine.  

Malaysia Airlines may have been negligent due to its flight route decision.  I hope other airlines reconsider their flight paths.Did civilian aircraft keep trying to fly over Egypt and Libya when they where overthrowing the government?  Is anyone trying to fly over ISIS territory now?

There are armed groups in the world without planes.  I expect them to fire first and ask questions later.  They are active war zones.  

Anyplace in ongoing conflict or expressing ongoing hostility will need to be considered carefully before entering by land, sea or air.  

Fortunately all of North America, most of South America, half of Africa, most of Europe and most of Asia is safe for flying.  There are plenty of options available instead of flying overhead of groups armed with surface to air missiles, who lack planes and are fighting with their lives on the line.If other airlines also failed to consider safety, that dosnt make another airline better.  As far as I am aware, the legal excuse of "he did it too" has never worked.Yet Australia spies on its "friend" Indonesia.  

Is Israels biggest crime is fake passports, we should be far more concerned about the criminal syndicates that routinely forge them.  Its a small thing in global terms to forge passports.  

Palestine which voted in Hamas has armed training camps for various groups.  I think the possibility that Hamas is training a future Australian killer is a bit more concerning.Its worth noting that he does not wish to prohibit financial dealings with Palestine.  Just Israel.The words should be against the group that started firing missiles which lead the Israelis to fire back
It should be against the group that rejected the peace offer by Egypt.  
It should be against the group that uses human shields.  
It should be against the terrorist organization that is the government
Hamas.Israel and Palestine have been in conflict since Palestine existed.  Before that the UN created Israel and many people moved there.  

It is worth noting that no Israeli's claim to be refugees when fleeing to Palestine.  Yet there are Palestinians who claim to be refugees when fleeing to Israel.  Israel is a rare democracy in the middle east that was bombed before it told its troops to fight back in this war. 
Already Hamas (a prior listed terror organization) has rejected an Egyptian peace offer.  With some Palestinians firing from very public places, what is Israel meant to do?  

Trust the UN to sort things out?  The UN has condemned Israel more than all other nations combined.  Dictatorships, geonocide and sexism to the point of honor killings put together dont bother the UN as much as Israel.  

Israel occupying land always wrong.  Still, there is so much anti Israeli bias that Australia's refusal to call an area occupied hardly counters it.  At present only Israeli war crimes are being investigated.  I would have throught reports of missiles being launched from schools and from urban areas would have been investigated as well (if I didnt understand UN history that is).  

I completely understand why the Israeli politicians have told the UN to F off.RaysS, only due to lies from the left do some of the world believe that.  Our refugee program remains one of the highest in the world.  Now we also have decent criteria of what it takes to be a refugee so our refugee program may start to be full of actual refugees.RayS, there support is in temporary tented communities that are occasionally removed by the army.  Australia is a leader in permanent resettlement.  So about your last question.....ENH, lol

Then how come the lastest boat load went from India to SriLanka to Australia?

How come we get many from Iran which is not in war?

Australia is a top pick of countries when people choose to resettle.  The more we open our borders, the more the word will spread.If you are concerned about the amount of resources, you should be happy there is a cut back on immigration from the ALP's spending.  

The amount of resources has reduced.yank, it is illegal to lie about claiming asylum.  This is what many do.  Under the ALP we only needed to be 10% certain that they where telling the truth.  So many more than likely liars got it when people who had been waiting for a decade in UN camps didnt even get assessed.  

No one from the left is able to explain how that is humane.  At least with warped logic they can justify all the drownings their approach caused.There is no 100% in the world
Still, you are advocating filling limited positions with people that have next to no chance of being wrongly persecuted at the expense of those that are more certain if they return and have waited longer.Dave, even the ABC was publishing stories about how "bad" Morrison was to change the 10% to 50%.  I have no trust in ABC neutrality.  Still, are you claiming the ABC was lying?The arrivals in Australia where met with a 10% test and assessed first.  

Surely the arrivals by boat and plane believe they will get some advantage over UN camps.  If not they would certainly avoid paying people smugglers.  The fact that the advantage comes in the form of shorter wait times and better facilities is evident by the numbers and photos of UN refugee camps.  

I dont blame any person for trying to catch a boat to Australia under Greens or ALP because it makes sense.  What I blame is the weak and harmful approach supported by refugee advocates who ignore the near 50 Million UN refugees, the poorest refugees and the refugees that can not leave the country in which the suffer persecution.  

Simply by arriving in Australia's territory there is a demonstration of capacity that many do not have.  This should make them less worthy on an application process.  Still they will be pushed to the front of the line ahead of all the 50 Million in UN camps.lol, thats what the Greens and ALP thought.  Now that we arnt having hundreds of drownings every year and every second day arrivals are far closer to once every second month,

Its not the effect of the Liberal policy you are looking at here.The UN camps are far less resourced.  Shouldnt we try are remove people who have been there longer first?

Its strange I never hear about UN refugee camp residents performing self harm.  Why is that?  Mr Lake has come closest to the explanation with his concern that refugee advocates where encouraging self harm.BJA, try actually trying to debate instead of giving out labels.  
If you are keen to put yourself in peoples shoes try this scenario

You fled Libya and are in a UN refugee camp.  You have been there for six years without any country assessing you.  Richer people from Iran and SriLanka manage to pay criminals to jump ahead when they have not even been waiting for a year.  

There is still no education for your children, one doctor per thousand at best and you are living in a tent.  

What do you believe your impression of Australian boat arrivals would be? (understanding that you would lack TV and Internet to hear about it in the first place which we provide to boat arrivals)BJA, by accepting boat arrivals, you are effectively pushing back people in UN camps.  The fact that you believe your actions may include murder will hardly help the people in lands where they fear persecution.  They would then need to fear their fellow refugees.  

Its not making the situation better.  Supporting boat arrivals provides funds to criminal group (which may also perform murder) and believe you would kill in that situation adds a double whammy.  If this is what Australian policy ends up supporting, the policy is horrendous.  This was effectively the ALP policy as UN camps acceptance dropped to the lowest in over a decade.  

There is alot of good to be done by refusing any boat or plane arrival.MK, even if it is not absolutely stopped a few hundred lives saved per year, millions of dollars and the ability to start assessing UN refugees once again are all good things.  

Considering your staunch belief in the unrealistic, you may well believe you have that snake oil.Much like the rest of the ABC's anti border protection brigade, the fairer really means accepting more arrivals without proper checks or wait times compared to those else where in the world.Which is a lie of itself.  Let a country accept more asylum seekers on a per capita basis or even a total basis before they criticize.  

Only the US and sometimes Canada achieve that.  

The reason many overseas places hear of ill treatment is because for political reasons, the left in Australia want to make it a story.  Pity its not a story with international perspective regarding what other countries are doing and asylum seekers who have been waiting even longer.  

I would be interested to see the Australian Human Rights Commission compare this with UN Refugee camps.  If they perform better, the solution would appear to be setting up tents in a desert, cutting health staff, not proving any teachers and giving the same simple meal day after day.You mean the Americans that have the biggest refugee migration intake in the world?

You dont want Australia to accept the most in the world?  
Perhaps the Japanese are more to your liking when they accept next to none.  

Our New Zealand neighbors accept less on a per capita and total basis.  We could try copying them.  

Italy with only six days of protection and an approach that lets even more die at sea?

Which country do you believe is nicer?  I would be interested to know.The processing system for asylum seekers, like most government assessment is a joke.  
This one is even more of a joke as it has become political.  

Migration staff have been fired for giving too many negative assessments.  I have never heard of them being fired for giving too many positive assessments.Stu, how do we know an asylum seeker is who they say they are?  

Captain Ehad was declared a refugee when he was actually a people smuggler.  So was his family.  Each claimed the other was dead and they where found by the ABC living together.  Captain Ehad left on a commercial plane before a trial could begin.  His family is still declared as refugees despite a central part of their claim being a lie.  

Australia is inept at processing people without documents.I compare it to UN refugee camps.  No one in Australia calls those camps horrid.  May be time to downgrade to tents and remove running water.Astro, that claim of a lie is a lie in itself.  The UN refugee convention refers to illegal migrants.  
Even then, Australia can decide to call them illegal migrants if they breach Australian law.  

Examples of illegal migrants include Reza Barati (economic migrant) and Captain Ehad (people smuggler).  Both lied in their applications when they said they where fleeing persecution.  Both would have therefor broken Australian law which is illegal and where seeking to migrate thus making them both illegal migrants.If you want an example of the bad effects of illegal and unwanted migration to the previous inhabitants, just ask the Indigenous people of Australia.  

The current boat arrivals are largely illegal and unwanted.Fair would be assessing the ones who have waited longer in UN camps first.  What makes the boat arrivals illegal and unwanted is the fact that they are queue jumpers at best.  Many are liars and too many have gotten in when on balance they where not refugees under the 10% certainty test.  

Illegal and unwanted.  Select a person who has been waiting over half a decade in a UN camp tent any day instead of a boat arrival.Ben, only willingness to refuse to see the UN refugee convention place limitations on refugee migration and willingness to ignore the Australian migration act could lead you to still question how they are illegal.  

One of the many lies told by refugee advocates.Yet you dont trust Mr Lake (former director of centers), or Mr Morrison.  

Trust depends on lots of things.  The claims by Mr Lake be a condemnation and worthy of removing many charities if proven true.Trust depends far more  on who is confirming your beliefs.  You dont trust Morrison because his claims that many are not genuine refugees is against your belief.  His claim that it is more humane to refuse goes against a sense of instant gratification of giving.Review does not mean approve.  
It does not mean reject either.  

Review allows a choice.  The Senators where elected to consider what is the best course of action on proposed legislation.Interest of the nation in this article appears to be defined as "actions I agree with"

In the opinion of the Liberals, taking necessary steps to remove a harmful and useless tax (Carbon tax) surely would be in the national interest.  
Getting to know the parties that hold balance of power in order to pass legislation would be in the national interest.  

What is for the benefit of the nation is extremely debatable.  
I just dont know which one of her was real.  
A flipper on climate change, offshore detention, importance of budget surplus, inability to say why she removed Rudd?He already has.  Saving over a hundred lives a year and not putting the burden of debt onto children.I would have trusted Rudd to get the most mileage out of it.  His ego always shone through when traveling abroad.I believe he has some foreign posting position.  He was right to leave parliament after loosing the election and that whole Rudd Gillard Rudd thingWhen the first influx of asylum seekers arrived, the ALP should have taken action.  
When the first hundred, second hundred all the way to thousand plus died, something should have happened.  

That way an economic migrant (Reza's family admits he was looking for work) would have never put such a social and financial burden on Australia, never been in a center of others in situations like his and never been involved in a riot that ultimately lead to his death.  

Morrison and Abbott took action before this occurred to stop applicants from ever arriving in Australian detention in the first place OR drowning at sea.  In many years, perhaps those in detention will be in single digits once again.  

And please dont tell me the majority are refugees when we only need to be 10% convinced to grant them.  Its a status given when there could still be deep doubt about the status in the first place.  We have plenty in UN refugee camps to assist who have been waiting for far longer.By arriving in Australia by boat or plane, a person has demonstrated they have more financial means than many refugees.  
By arriving by boat they have shown they have financial means that many plane arrivals will not have AND  also have the ability to liaise with criminal networks.  

None of which makes them more eligible than people who have been stuck in UN camps for years.  

The Liberal party has always been against queue jumpers.  The only "safe passage" that the Greens would be happy with to Australia will effectively mean open borders.  This is something that at least the ALP never wanted.  It just didnt have the courage to make the morally necessary decisions.  

I am happy to accept genuine refugees.  The ones in the most danger are not the ones that arrive by boat or plane.  
The ones in the most danger can not afford or are physically unable to go to a place where they would receive such special treatmentFlamingGent

They are not half starved.  They have thousands of dollars to pay people smugglers.  Many looks obese.  The half staved cant travel via people smugglers to Australia as they do not have the cash.  They are not going to be assessed because boat and plane arrivals under the ALP took all the places.  

The only time I am hearing of "invasion" seems to be coming from those that want more boat arrivals.  Isnt it a lie when you put quotation marks around a word that was never said?

Who are you quoting?

The sentiment of your last two paragraphs may need reflection upon by yourself.  Just change the word right with left and "were full" to UN campsThe challenge is the left agreeing with it.  
The ABC never thought it was necessary to show pictures, names and history of all the other asylum seekers that drowned at sea.  

Over 1000 dead, not one tear about these deaths from the Greens.  The normal response from the individuals that put the causing policy in place which changed deaths from a few a year to well over a hundred is that it is a red herring and no one really cares.  

Strange how some deaths are worth caring about but others are not.You realize all the current offshore processing centers where opened by the ALP dont you?

If you find detainment distasteful there are basically two options

1) Open borders, preventing the whole detainment process and encouraging economic refugees the world over to come
2) Detering people from arriving in Australia to claim asylum by offering no benefit over the UN refugee camps.  

We are still offering many benefits.  Strangely the human rights bodies never bother assessing the UN camps, yet will look at Australia's on a routine basis.  We are closest to 2.  Much better for the current citizens than open borders.@Forrest Gardener

You find the necessity of detention centers funny?  The ALP closed all offshore centers and then was forced to reopened after tens of thousands where arriving.  

And there is anger from the left that the right dosnt care.  Hypocritical, not funny.Peter, is there any other topic where you consider the person whos decisions cause the deaths of hundreds from a certain group every year as the non racist?

Look at the numbers.  There was over half a decade where no deaths as sea occurred under Howard.  There is a statistically significant difference when the numbers jump up from zero to a thousand + over a similar time period.  
The fact that this corresponds with border policy changes would make it a huge coincidence for it to be anything else.  Changes in global refugee numbers did not increase a thousand fold.  

Already the Liberal government has almost completely prevented at sea drownings and boat arrivals.  Policies have an impact.  Ignoring the global ramifications of border policies demonstrates the lack of morals that exist by the ALP and Greens.These "gulags" which people are free to leave, include free recreation, healthcare, education and decent meals (you have no idea how offensive you have been to people who have lived in gulags) where created by the ALP out of necessity.  

They are not being treated inhumanely.  The ones being treated inhumanely are the people still stuck in UN refugee camps, whom have waited longer and have far worse facilities.  

Any sympathy for them, or do you prefer people who have shown financial capacity and ability to work with international criminals?

I am still waiting for a word on the ABC about the thousand plus that drowned at sea.  If each name could be mentioned as much as Rezo's

OR, if we could have a candle light vigil for each of the dead individually in three years time I will be focusing on the death of an economic migrant whom broke Australian law and ended up in an ALP designed facility where all of lives essentials where free and guaranteed.  

Instead you focus on a person who arrived illegally in Australia (not a refugee as looking for work), had every opportunity to leave and was part of a group that decided to riot and routinely abused staff.  My sympathy will remain with those who have far less choice and on repeated instances of death which go unaddressed.Have you seen any UN refugee camp?  The UN would be failing to meet its own requirements.  People in those camps wait far longer than they do in Australia.  Why is that group ignored?  

The UNHCR is a pointless and political organization.  Much like the UN's condemnations where the majority are focused on Israel (seriously, I thought North Korea, FGM, child marriages and dictatorships would be a bit higher), the UNHCR serves no practical point and due to political views should be ignored by Australia.  

UNHCR has no solutions, it has no respect for a countries democratic will and has no responsibility to fund the processes it wants.On the ABC, and Liberal leader would be deemed an embarrassment to Australia.  
Having secured Free Trade Agreements with some of our major trading partners, increased US investment in Australia, almost removed deaths at sea as an international issue.  There has been an error of jargon regarding Israel and inherited problems regarding spying on neighbors and international people smuggling inherited from the ALP.  

Overall there has been a significant improvement in Australia's international relations.If you are concerned about world play instead of results, I see how partisanship can build a concern.  

A UN resolution was passed in such a short time with all countries on side which was lead and drafted by Australia.  Australia must have said far more right than wrong.I hope the Dutch and Australians have better things to consider.  If not, both countries have things better than ever before.  

The words used are nothing in comparison to the sentiment which is again nothing in comparison to the actions taken by both countries.Generality, you obviously circle yourself in hate if you have only met Jets and Arabs who hate each other.  

Get out of it.  Its not healthy to you or others.The 1600 is a very low deathtoll in a war.  It shows that decisions have deliberately been made not to bomb everything that moves.  

If Hamas (which governs no Jewish people) is ruling a country that is facing situations like the Jews (and others) on trains, you are kidding yourself and showing your anti-semitism.   

A war that was sparked by the death of Three Israeli teenagers, which continued when Hamas refused an Egyptian peace offer whilst Israel accepted and continued after a cease fire broke down in Israeli territory.  

There where many options to stop the fighting.  Instead the decision to crowd civilians in streets that have specifically warned of bombing occurred.  Hamas is responsible for many of the 1600 deaths its country felt.All Israel wants is a side that does not build war tunnels into its territory, perform suicide bombings and fire blindly.  

It appears too much for Israel to ask.  Every cease fire was honored by Israel until broken by Hamas.  There is far more restraint in one of those sides.What is nasty is the prejudices held and repeated by media.  The deliberate lack of information, careful wording as to create false impressions and decisions to focus on certain areas is amazing.  

One recent example is that tunnels to Gaza worth about $100 Million and actively used by Hamas militants where built.  How in terms of materials, technology and funds?  How come this was never reported, how is it possible that the UN never raised concerns about its materials going missing?  If people claim these tunnels are for supplies, what supplies are they passing through there and how is this possibly easier then getting supplies passed through Iran?  

Then there was also never coverage in terms of timeline into why movements for peace broke down.  What firing can be confirmed, where was it and when.  

Instead the titles are quick to use the word Israel and lack any analysis.  This is what $1 Billion a year gets.  

With incomplete and biased information, how can you expect people not to form biases themselves?Iran is a supporter of Hamas and provides such things as rockets which are fired blindly.  This is admitted by no better source than the Iranian government (except the blind fire bit).  

Building an undetected tunnel into a nation whos primary military concern is your own and already has an active blockade (with Egypt) sounds a tad harder to me.So your main example of racism there is having a common language?  Many migrants from non-english speaking backgrounds have managed to adapt.  There is a big difference between accepted refugees in terms of prison rates and employment from Indigenous people.  Why?  Both have a different complexion and a different language to start of with.  Both also have experienced horrors with many refugees having witnessed the horrors themselves instead of through their parents or grandparents stories.  

The sad fact is that an individual can choose how to react.  Reacting in a way that blames racism for things that have gone wrong not only weakens an individual but also perpetuates an excuse for others rather than addressing the multitude of causes.When a racist cartoon is not stopped by editors or even reported by the ABC until apologies and firing takes place it is questionable.  

Yet the ABC was so quick to highlight the ALP's call for liberal members to resign after not seeing a sexist menu that was printed by some kitchen staff.  

There was also such a nice lack of interest when ALP lies to the tent embassy led to the PM running for safety.  

If you want an example of racism and censorship, look at the $1bn example that I am forced to contribute towards as an Australian."rightful residence"  lol

There are never any rightful residence.  There is however a group that can control who entered the land.  

Indigenous Australians fought over territory and still do with overlapping title claims.  All of Europe, Africa and Asia has a well documented history of countless invasions.  Even the less documented North and South America have quite a few invasions on record over almost every inch of land.  

The fact is that Europeans did invade the land we called Australia.  Most tribes in Australia would have also had times of being invaded and invading.  Weapons can have many purposes.  

Now in Australia the people with any amount Indigenous heritage who wish to be called Indigenous get higher welfare payments, access to grants only available to Indigenous people, more healthcare options, greater employment assistance options, far greater housing support, get greater say over development. get more legal aid and more scholarship opportunities.  

"Indigenous" (by government definition) Australians have far more rights.How strange that the ABC dosnt post a response that includes figures from ABSTUDY and Austudy (spelt exactly that way on the Human Services website with one all in caps)

Pity the myths by of the past stated by dubious' are continued to be supported.  When a person studying a Masters qualification can get nearly $500 more a week due to the wish to be classified as Indigenous, there is certainly a difference.Good point Debunker.  A cartoon clearly showing a Jewish person blowing Gaza up in a manner comparable to Nazi propaganda combined with a very biased article with a title "Israel's rank and rotten fruit is being called fascism"

If section 18 is not used, there is inconsistency to say the least.  
I would see the editor due to the combination also at risk.  The cartoonist, Mike Carlton and editor all have questions to answer.  

The cartoonist is silent
Mike Carlton insists all that are offended support the right wing alliance of Israel
The editor is creating as much distance as possible

Clearly no one out of the three is supporting accountability.  To suggest the Iron dome is effective (most missiles not intercepted and deaths of three jewish children sparked military action) and an invasion (unless land is claimed, its not an invasion, its an occupation or military action of questionable justifiability)

The speed to assume all in favor are racists and Likuds is insulting

There is a statement of prison.   if so, why is Gaza not angry about Egypt?   

Then the suggestion of indiscriminate targeting when letter drop warnings and empty missile warning have been used whilst Hamas stops people fleeing dosnt even get mentioned is very questionable.  

Likely to cause offense is the test.  

In my analysis, its very likely.  Its a difficult issue and the blatant one sided name calling and false statement of effective Iron dome with majority failure rate also mean false.  

Less false statements than Andrew Bolts article, yet false is not quantifiable in the act.There are many questions over the story.  I wouldnt rule out the surrogacy mother trying to run a scam.  There are many claims and counterclaims all being only reported as claims.  
I also wouldnt rule out the biological parents acting illegally with children when there have been so many sex convictions.  

What the story really shows is that an artificial international human reproduction system between cultures with different ethics and systems of law will run into problems.  

The matter would be a lot easier if there where Australian surrogacy parents and biological parents.  I wonder if the  artificial international human reproduction companies ever bothered of warning about the risks.Same was said about John Howard without end on leftist media.  He was constantly unlikable yet he kept on being voted back in as he was seen as more competent than the other side.  

The mere fact that you mention asylum seekers just means the Liberals need to remind people about the difference of one boat arrival and no drownings in six months compared to a boat arrival every few days and over 100 drownings every six months with much higher expenses.What we need is training programs with increasing compliance requirements as someone has been of the dole for longer combined with an unwillingness to pay people unemployment if they are unwilling to relocate.  

The application for jobs does not mean jobs will be received.  It just means the interviewer will throw more applications away without reading properly and as a result probably not choose the most suited person for the role due to a resume not being "catchy" enough.There may be many reasons not to move.  Some I would say are worthy such as needing to care for a nearby relative or having a suitable support network.  

Just because your friends are there is not a good reason.  Australia is far less mobile than the US.  It would be interesting to know why.  Moving to where your skills are most in demand is sensible for everyone.  The initial stages may be scary but what is even scarier is being stuck unemployed for longer.  

If someone has a truly good reason not to move, they will likely approach a carer or disability payment anyway.Try and explain anything too far ahead of any childs stage of development and you will just give them a headache.  

Good and bad is a simple version, yet quite understandable.Jane, why dont you try and determine for yourself what are the biggest tragedies to tell your children rather than just blindly believing the media.  

Examples include the cleansing of Christians from all ISIS territory, the major cause of death in Africa remaining to be the lack of clean water, treatment of North Korean citizens by their regime etc etc.  

The sad thing is your nasty world only seems limited to top media stories.  That is just the tale the Australian media wants to feed you?Are you saying a video tape can not be removed?

It is essentially the same thing, only slower and only possible at certain times.  The video recorder (as blu ray, dvd or vcr) is dead because of digital content.I notice the death of a plan without any business case or proper analysis.  Its time we looked at more possibilities than a program that cost $7 Billion to deliver 3% and had no cost benefit analysis.To the government especially because once enforcement is considered in forms of investigation and penalty you would need to compare this against tax benefits going back to it.  

What percentage of tax would the Australian government get from employees and profits by a foreign organization?  Even if based in Australia, you would also need to consider the role of advertizing in order to increase sales that downloads deliver.  

I suspect the Australian government would get less than 1% of every dollar "earned" by industry projections which are probably inflated in themselves.The best analogy I have seen is photocopying.  

By taking a toy, there is one less.  A computer file can be copied endless times.  If I copy a word document, that dosnt mean you cant type or view your copy.  The same applies to downloading.Considering the entertainment industry is gaining record profits

What is being stolen?  Have I stopped a show from being aired by downloading a copy that I want to watch sooner rather than in months time?  Have I stopped the idea when I mention the show to friends?  Have I stopped sales when I later purchase products because I know what I am buying prior to being asked to pay?

Downloads are no different than a video recorder.  People use to record TV shows and there was a big fuss by the entertainment industry when they went out.  

I will download because the only ones loosing are people that overcharge Australians for downloads or pay TV.So the excessively rich entertainment business wants to get another $1 Billion from Australia when we are already overcharged for delayed products.  

BEEP off, springs to mind as a response.  

Why are the laws only being tightened one way?  If Australia is to restrict users for foreign companies, why not restrict foreign companies for blocking or charging different prices for Australian users.  Even if my bank needs to convert the price to US dollars, it would be far cheaper than what they are currently demanding.  

The only potential benefactor of these proposed laws are very wealthy people.  The cost is restriction of information which can be used for many things including purchasing decisions.The ALP decision to fund fact checker to be run by the ABC (which is in bed enough with the ALP to refuse two tender assessments) which is comprised of left winged personalities and staff

Still cant get basic facts right.  For example, cuts to the ABC.  Its not a broken promise to refuse to deliver future unfunded cash to a group.  
If the money was never delivered, how is that a cut?

Much like the "cuts" to education claimed by the ALP and Greens when total funding is actually to increase above inflation (which isnt seen as a cut?), the ABC has shown inconsistency with its own fact checker.If you want to see a country that completely has the wrong approach to past wars, you need to look at Japan.  

They refuse to admit their faults, continue to honor war criminals and cant give an account of their invasions, history of their foreign policies or what they made their citizens do.  

Germany on the other hand owns up fully and continues to act in a war to honor those that risked their life for a noble cause whilst lamenting the decisions by the public that lead them to a path of war.  

War is not worth celebrating.  The individuals who fought against the evil are.  They are far more worth celebrating than the "good men" who stood by and did nothing.  Both of them are still far more worth of accepting than those that profited from the deaths of others (Switzerland!).Many on the ABC seem to think mass death is trivial.  Just a vague notion of freedom and democracy.  Thin line between that and utopia in some minds I guess.You think the notions of freedom and democracy are vague?

Have you ever tried to be as opinionated as a permanent resident of a country like China, North Korea, Russia, Iran, Libya or others?

You like in a country with some of the highest freedoms and standards of democracy in the world because people fought to make it such.  And you consider the terms vague.  I appreciate the sacrifices that where made in WW1 to try and stop foreign government interference, to counter racial hatred and to give nations true independence.  

Its a pity that peoples will could not be overturned by peaceful actions.  But a dictatorship never rises by peaceful actions.  It is ridiculous to think all dictatorships can be removed by peaceful actions.Yeah, I mean why bother fighting back when oppressors come.  Its a waste.  Accept your death/slavery/submission.  

Its easy for bleeding hearts to moan the death of innocence.  Its much harder for them to give a realistic method of stopping the deaths being necessary.  They will just be the prime benefactors having never sacrificed but getting all the gain.Excellent point.  I too can not remember such events being for glory.  There was appreciation of sacrifice, regret of the path, sympathy for the plight of all, anger at former government that took land/right, tears at loss and so much more.  

I have never heard anyone say "we need another war".  If it was glory people would be calling for another round.So what if your forefathers fought Nazi's.  Did you?  

Just because someone who sprouted you from their loins did something dosnt mean you deserve any credit or condemnation due to is.  

The fight against Germans was against many things including racism.  I hope your forefathers could fight against your beliefs.  A very worthy cause.Having been to Germany including seeing their war memorials and having met Germans in five different nations...

It obvious you are clueless about Germans.  The German people are the most aware of history out of all nations I have seen ranging from their memorials to the Jewish people, maintenance of the Berlin wall, history curriculum and openness to tourists who visit about all.  

Alfie, you are clueless about Germans.By that logic we should feel free to condemn every Muslim, Christian and Jewish, Buddhist person due to terrorists or some citizens from their country that committed murder.  

Every Australian too due to backpacker murders, David Hicks, policies on the border that caused drownings, policies of supports foreign wars, policies of cutting foreign aid etc etc etc

Well done.  With your weak logic you have damned all on this planet.Agreed.  Unfortunately much of the media is filled with historical illiterates.  Most Australians will never know especially when a tax payer funded organization barely contains its opinions more than sydney morning herald "cartoonists".Not just that.  I have heard many people try to guild trip me from dead peoples history of Indigenous people and even use their own heritage to claim they deserve a special hearing/rights.  

I have heard of many try to guilt trip the descendents of those the committed autrocities including descendents of serial killers to politicians.  

We live in a world where holding on to hate it a goal to maintain the moral high ground.  

There is no moral high ground in continuing to attack Germany for actions of their ancestors or attack any one else for the actions of theirs.The growth in real estate is largely being caused by foreign buyers.  Much like the growth in gas prices.  

Australia has limited national resources and no national approach to ensure these limited resources are used to benefit Australians.  

The only benefit with our housing and gas industries goes to foreign companies and nationals.  

We should ensure a percentage of gas is provided to Australia for free and question the public good in allow foreign individuals to buy houses in Australia when they are not used by Australia's most vulnerable nor does the majority of the profit go to Australia.After a promising start on the ABC for a neutral political subject for the first time in my life, the ABC has returned to its biased lines.  

Why is it Israels job not to give up on diplomacy when Hamas has not given or supported one peace offer?
When Hamas started this conflict by firing in Israel and killing three civilians?

And for the ABC why is there no counter opinion article?
Why is there no criticism of the Sydney Morning Heralds disgusting racial cartoon and connecting article?  Being from Murdoch, it speaks volumes when this racial attack is not commented upon by the left as it is not a racial attack of convenience.  
Why is there greater focus on Israel than ISIS which has cleansed Christians from its territories and killed about a hundred fold more?

As for the UN, why is there no condemnation of an army in civilian clothes?
Why has Israel been condemned more than everything else combined?
Why is there no condemnation of firing from civilian areas or encouraging civilians to gather around sites that have been warned of bombing?
Why is there no condemnation of using UN aid to build tunnels to another country without that countries permission?

Racism is alive and well.  Israel is continuing to be vilified far outside of its crimes and Christian deaths are not worth reporting.  There are many organizations that need to take a good hard look at themselves and for once grow a moral backbone.As long as there are increasing steps of management, I could handle any welfare program.  The start may be people saying they will get a job within two months in their field.  If that fails a back up plan of study or new area may be required.  

What is needed is individual back to work plans which are tailored to needs.  Many wont need anything more than a few hundred dollars over the next weeks or help restructuring their resume.  

Others will need help with realistic expectations due to lack of jobs in their desired area or lack of skills/experience.  

Others will need psychological help before they can work again.  At present the welfare system treats people as a number, not a person.Well Dave, you are a fine example of written Christian persecution.  Have you ever asked why the Indonesian President, Iranian, Palestinian or others hate Islam?

When many countries in the world report that less than 1% of their population is Christian, the most common reason has to do with past or current persecution of Christians.  I dont see any concern from you about that.  Its not Christian morals to care about persecution.  Its human to be concerned when any group is facing genocide.  Try showing your human side for a change.Religious groups do not place eternal punishment on each other.  
Considering you see religion as "silly", perhaps you should look more into the factors that lead someone to becoming religious.  

Im not saying this as a religious person, just someone who knows enough about religious people to know categorize their beliefs in such a way.People both religious and non-religious have done violent things.  Any leader of the past that wanted to convince a large group of people to harm others would have the ability to pretend as much as they are needed.  

The cause of problems is largely greed and pride.  I hope you are not overly proud of your beliefs (or lack of) that you would physically force them on others.  That is what ISIS is doing today.So?  Would you prefer Australia had been bombed more instead, that the Vietnemese regime that caused so much harm continued or other dictators remained?  

Or would you prefer to just give cheap shots against Christians?

Decisions by countries that are majority anything are not made lightly.b will probably occur in a peaceful society over time to an even lower percentage than present.  

As for a, refocus on what makes the individuals violent.  A culture of dictatorship, desperate situations, religious killings and extremism brings a different psychology to individuals.  

Anyone will be effected if they have to grow up in fear of their government, fear of speaking out against people who claim to have god being them, fear of finding enough food and fear of being forced into combat.  Its fear of a system.  

The effects of a lifetime of that will not be sidelined by migrating to a different place, therapy or anything else.  The best we can do is support the sections of the world that are moving away from extremism and ensure they are defended from being overtaken again.Are you actually a representative of Oaktree the organization?  I hope not for a comment as blatant wrong as that.  
I know you care more about refugees in front of you than those further away and dont see any responsibility on Australia for those drowning at sea.  

I am also aware of your political stance.  Two Oaktree aligned positions.  

I very much doubt the organization would be happy with you blaming a past conflict of the crusades and using it to justify the deaths of people being forced to flee or convert.  
Maya, when Hamas fired first and refuses to address the fact internally, what do you expect Israel to do?

Just because a little dog started a fight with a big dog, it dosnt make the little dog innocent when the big dog bites back.If you look at the UN's history, the UN cant be trusted.  Nations in the UN are mainly dictatorships.  Surrendering to a world body where dictators decide your fate is a leap away from democracy.  

For bias you only need to look at the history of UN condemnations.  Israel receives more than North Korea, China, Russia, all the countries that perform FGM or stop women from voting and all terrorist groups combined.  

Israel is nowhere near that bad.This war is not profitable.  Hamas believes in martydom and started this conflict by firing at Israel.  What exactly did you expect Israel to do?If the pro Palestinian community could show a country that does not randomly fire at its neighbors and thus starting conflicts
If they could show a democracy
If they could show removal of the terrorist group Hamas
If they could show the country stopped producing refugees
If they could show international aid was not redirected to build illegal tunnels

THEN, they would.Australia needs to avoid condemning just Israel.  Israel has received more condemnations than every other country and group combined.  The UN is hardly a place of balance.  

What amazes me about the conflict is that the Palestinian government still has not been condemned For:
Starting the latest round of combat
Using aid to build tunnels to smuggle goods
Firing from civilian locations (using human shields)
Avoiding army clothing to make sides indistinguishable
Being unable or unwilling to address a group of terrorists that run rampant in its nation.  

There is an international bias when such things go on and there is no condemnation of Palestine

Israel has rightly been condemned for occupying land and firing decisions.  But if the aim is to avoid being a cheerleader, surely the other side deserves a few condemnations as well.Good point Jay

What is the public interest of laws to stop currently illegal downloads?
It will certainly restrict information sharing.  That is not in the public interest.  

It will give money to larger companies that already have multi-million dollar budgets.  So the ones being harmed arnt the poorest.  

And yes, it may stop some new shows being aired.  Yet the multitude of shows that one can gain is greatest if freely shared.  And with new programs anyone can create something.  

So what is the purpose of the proposed laws.  As far as I can tell, it is to give more to millionaires.  

My heart weeps when a celebrity needs to downgrade from a diamond encrusted toilet to a simple gold plated one.A good alternative is downloading a false proxy.  Make the websites believe you are American.  The prices fall and more content is available.Latham is causing problems with the left because once he was removed from the party he was able to say what he was privately trying to achieve.  

There are structural problems that he mentioned.  When a PM cant go from one election to the next in the ALP, the evidence seems to prove him right.  

I am not suprised he lost the election.  He spoke with clarity on issues rather than vague and unattainable promises.  Its why I voted for him, but I never thought he would succeed.You think the socialist alliance is relevant.  There is a laugh

As for Greens, they are just the far left of the ALP.Most thesis only get cited a few times.  Relevance of the author is almost certainly going to be less than the relevance of Mark Latham today.I think the only way to stop it is by permanently firing senior managers if they can not show evidence of frank and fearless advice.  
The home insulation scheme for example has been reviewed and reviewed.  Yet there is not one piece of evidence that a public servant said "this is dangerous" to the minister.Who is responsible for creating the supportive environment of the department if not for the most senior managers?

I understand the danger, yet that should be changed by creating a counter culture of concern if proper analysis or opinion is not given.  

At present those that can say many words without saying a thing are the ones promoted.  That is not in anyone's interest.People on six figure salaries are not wage slaves.What is wrong with the name "bring them home"?
It accurately states the governments intent.  Is there a problem with the intent or does Jonathan believe there should not be a name for a complicated project or is the problem that the government is communicating with the public on this issue?

I could take almost anything a politician or person has ever said and find three words.  Almost every single project has a title of three or less words.  

The real problem appears to be some policies dont match personal views.  There will never be a government that matches all my views or anyone elses.  Even the PM needs to compromise with his party.PR are a sad part of our political life.  If you believe the ALP or Greens dosnt have an army of PR professionals, you are kidding yourself.  

Why only focus on one party?"Operation Bring them home as Soon as possible considering international opinion and war zone parameters" is a tad too long.  

Just because it is not in the title, dosnt mean it isnt considered.  
Rabbithole, pull your head in
When there are people saying they shot down an airliner, when the firing location is within rebel territory and when it is the rebel forces primarily making it difficult to gain access there is one main conclusion to make.  

The rebels have something to do with it.  The rebels use Russian equipment.  Russia has something to do with it.  

The EU believes Russia has something to do with it.  That is why they passed the latest sanctions.  Or are you claiming that the EU, Australia and the US are all lying?Le Mac, the other option is bringing weapons in.  What happens to someone with weapons who is not part of your army in a war zone?

Bringing in weapons would ensure Australia engages with weapons.  The weaponless approach allows the rebel government to demonstrate how it treats foreigners in its area.  

The rebel leaders dont want stories of unarmed foreigners going missing withing their territory or being wounded.  They want a decent start in claiming they are a peaceful and respectful new country.  

Unless Australia plans to kill with weapons in Ukraine, there is no point in weapons.Yank

Do you have a better option?  I know some want Abbott to send in armed people to secure the site.

There are basically three options
1) Retreat and do nothing (includes harsh words)
2) Send in non combatants to investigate
3) Send in armed troops to help the investigation

Tony Abbott has handled this issue quickly and well.  He managed to get a UN resolution with complete support.  This is not easy to achieve. 

The Australians in Donetsk can risk their lives more or keep trying in the relatively safe way they are.  
If Matthew was correct in his assumptions of Russian/rebel beliefs, the Australianss there would already be dead.  

Its time the ABC pulled its head in and stopped trying to be partisan on a bipartisan issue.  There are plenty of partisan issues it is already partisan about.Other industries have had to face changes in government regulation.  The special tax concessions negative gearing offers just pumps government money into an already inflated housing market.  

I would be happy if negative gearing was cancelled instantly.  It is not for the government to endlessly prop up businesses.  The sooner negative gearing is removed the better.  Same applies to first home owners grant.They had that.  The first home saver.  It is now cancelled mainly due to lack of interest.When do house prices fall below inflation?

Australia's current system of house purchases has remained roughly the same for decades.  We have one of the most unaffordable house prices in the world.  Third highest in the OECD in relation to income.  

There needs to be a change (unless you just want current home owners to benefit).  

All government has done is add more competition to the market.  At least Nick has an idea of what to do.  

Your idea of waiting for an interest rate drop when house prices constantly increase above inflation is an idea to wait until you are further out the market.What is wrong with using the value of a house?

I know it will lessen the value of a will, but that should not be an issue.  If someone lives in a million dollar property and needs government assistance, let the property give an income on the condition that ownership is passed on after death.  This way you will have private business paying what is a growing expense, retirement for those that have the capability to do so.  

The fact that government does not consider the value of a house in its welfare assessments is just plain ridiculous.  If it really is not worth considering as an asset, I will happily take an asset worth nothing of others.The problem with homes is they remain too expensive.  
What I would like to see is
a) taxes for multiple home owners IF their home is not rented to a third party for the majority of the year
b) Removal of all government grants/assistance/tax concessions to buy a home.

Having empty homes is a blight on Australia and an insult to the homeless.  Homes should primarily be for living and all attempts should be made to ensure that every home has people living in it.An acceptable armed force is easy to tell really.  
Are they fighting to overthrow a democracy?
Are they deliberately targeting different religions?
Do they gloat over deaths?

If yes to any, the person is attacking Australia's interests by joining.The biggest difference is that Israel is not calling for destruction of any part of Australian society.  
Israel accepts different religions.  ISIS &amp; Hamas and others do not
Israel supports democracy.  ISIS &amp; Hamas do not.
Israel has a register of its soldiers and clear uniform.  ISIS &amp; Hamas do not.  

I personally believe that the crime should be an Australian not receiving prior permission from the Australian government before joining a foreign armed force.  This way Australian citizens will be required to inform the government.  The option if rejection is made is either to forfeit citizenship by joining or not joining.ISIS did not start with the problem of Iraq sanctioned murder.  It started with the problem of not liking its government and not liking a different branch of Islam.  Joining an army or not will only allow ISIS "re-education" to go slower or faster.The problem is with jurisdiction.  How do you prove what someone did in a land the criminal investigators (police) can not enter?  Further, its the responsibility of the jurisdiction they committed the crime in.  

The easier target is just claiming they joined an armed group without Australia's permission.  This would automatically make new groups illegal to join simply because permission is not given.Strange when there was no concern by the ABC when the budget debt was one of the fastest growing in the OECD.

We had the ability to do so and some stimulus was required.  What was not required was migration blow outs, a NBN that cost $7 Billion for 3% and still had no business plan, the home insulation debacle, grocery watch, fuel watch, empty GP super clinics (some without buildings but still "complete"), e-health costing $200,000 per registered person, continued growth in public service, Mineral tax which was overspent before taken, UN security seat bid, ministerial merry go round and more.  

There is a reason harsh decisions need to be made.  If not offering a solution (eg higher taxes on a particular section), then stop offering problems.  I am glad the ALP was thrown out because they where incompetent managers.  The current government has not blown anything to near the same scale yet and I suspect will remain in for a while longer.  

As far as the ABC can find it lied on medicare when a type of clinic changed its name and it lied on borders when hundreds of lives and over a millions of dollars per year are being saved.  If they are the stuff ups, the government is going well.The challenge is three fold
1) Matching the right worker with the right employer
2) Ensuring that there is an appropriate working ethos by worker and employer
3) Proving skill pathways which make the employer suitable for Number 1

What too many applications will result in is applications that people have no chance of getting.  
What I would prefer is a specialized employment pathway for all who have been unemployed.  This may be made for the unemployed if their own pathway is not being achieved.

I dont mind payments being cut if someone refuses to study nursing, childcare or another skills shortage area.  The problem will be the course being designed in a way that can bring the reluctant on board.  If not, you will have a problem with Number 2Bencie, you also have the reasons most refugees stay close to their country completely wrong

a) They do not all have the cash or connectionss to pay criminals.  The more people smugglers that exist, the lower they can sell their service and the more that will know about it
b) They are relatively safe and believe being a secondary migrant will harm their application.  
c) They believe being moved by a criminal network is riskier than staying put

When "refugees" return for odd things, it is strange they do so with a passport.  If the government was truly against them, it would be government to find them.  

Booking flights under their name, using the passport at customs and knowing where relatives live are all fairly big clues of where to go.  When "refugees" return through official means, it is because they feel safe to do so.  

Tending a property for a few days is nothing if a government or militia can attend it when you are gone.  

If you are now concerned about the queue (which Oaktree suddenly accepts), then people jumping the queue are the reason the queue does not work.  The fact that Australia is third or second highest in total and per capita in accepting refugees for permanent resettlement means you should be telling other countries to pull their weight.  First world Asia, Europe and New Zealand accept next to none in comparison to Australia.  
Coogara, I would also add Captain Emads family.  They claimed he was dead only to end up living together.  

Well there goes their claim that they fled due to the husband/father being killed.  Yet they are still "refugees".  With enough one eyed sight, they probably still meet the 10% chance requirement.Flaming Gent, just because the bias that the refugee council holds, it does not make that section incorrect.  

Each boat arrival takes the place of another arrival.  The question is, who is most in danger?  Those who can not escape or those who have shown that they can?The queue is not invisible Jeremy.  
50 Million people have found it.  And that wasnt through a sixth sense.Susan, that does not make self selection only available to the rich and criminally connected right.  

If someone understands and knows the criminal networks in Afghanistan, they are most likely causing some of the growth in refugees by funding it.  

There was an attempt to install a democratic government in Afghanistan and it failed.  If there are so many refugees from one country, upskilling them to be able to implement a better government is the only possible solution to help all that live there.  

Australia does not want to accept so many Afghans that we start to implement Afghan traditions.John what interests me is that many of the past generations of refugees built towns.  
I suspect there would be health benefits if the asylum seekers where given the materials and something to do.  The fact that Australia needs to pay cleaning staff for detention centers is ridiculous.  Surely the asylum seekers if accepted will need to clean their own house.  

It would be interesting to view the dynamics of asylum seekers being required to build their own accommodation, cook for themselves and clean for themselves.  I suspect it would reveal quite a few people of poor character and it would certainly save some money.  

It may also stop the destruction of facilities when they know people in similar situations to themselves built it.  All Australia should need to pay for is materials, security and a few processing officers.  If an asylum seeker can not prove their case, Australia should not be on a goose chase to prove it for them.Susan, read again.  He said 60% due to immigration.  That would mean 40% by other causes.  Immigration remains the largest sole factor for Australia's population growth.  

And we offer the places not because so few make it to our shores.  The ALP had to increase the settlement number because TOO MANY made it to our shores.  We offer that many because we have one of the highest rates of permanent resettlement in the world.I think Susan is doing what many refugee advocates do.  Refuse to accept the difference between temporary housing (tenting more frequently) with no working rights and no interaction with other communities and what Australia does.  

I am aware that Australia does not have high numbers of people in UN refugee camps.  What we have high numbers of is permanent resettlement.  

John is right in his numbers.  Susan needs to read posts more carefully considering she cant read 60% in context or the word permanent.Tom, you should lok at history again.  
The ALP implemented offshore detention and attacked the Liberals regarding boat arrivals.  John Howard responded so well that no one died in the oceans for near half a decade and people in detention centers fell down to a handful.  In one year only one person arrived.  

John Howard did it so well that the ALP could no longer claim his method wasnt working so they went so far to go back on their own offshore detention policies.  Finally when in government they removed offshore detention, let thousands die and tens of thousands arrive and finally decided to do a half hearted response to restore their former policies.Pom, that is under the 10% liklihood test.  

This could well mean that the majority are unlikely to receive any harm.  That 10% number just requires someone to know details of persecution from a country and sound like that they are from there.  

90% pass a system when officers where fired for rejecting too many but never fired for accepting too many.  90% pass through a system where they do not even need to on balance believe the person is a refugee.  

The 90% is of approvals in a broken system, not actual refugees.Peter, you might know all that the government is thinking in secret.  
I know how government processing works in the real world.  

Government can not process much.  When it comes to people without documents and a strong political group pressuring government policy (refugee advocates), the one thing you can guarantee is that the system will be broken in a number of ways.  

The change to balance of probability is welcome.  There are people in UN camps with physical signs of torture.  We should focus on those we know are refugees, not those that are probably not.kcdl, then try and judge whether they are a secondary (economic) migrant or not (thus the risk is not great) and subtract this from character defects such as criminal association, any lies they may have told to Australian officials and reference this against current period of waiting


AND after, compare the same factors on someone who has been in a UN camp for a decade or someone who has physical signs of torture.  

By coming to Australia, there is a demonstrated capacity of avoidance that others simply do not have.kcdl, so you are happy to  have greater preference for only thoes that  have the money, connections or physical capability to come to Australia?

Most arrivals are males (sexist), need thousands of dollars just from Indonesia (elitist) and need to liaise with criminals (character test considerations)The fact that you think "economic" is a form of refugee is deeply concerning.  Almost all of Asia, Middle East, Africa and South America therefor automatically qualify.  

We should not offer any places to an economic refugee because the decision to let one seek riches will lead to the decision to send another back to torture.Amy, get rid of your racism and try debating on facts.  Are you claiming Asia, the Middle East, Africa or South America is rich?

Or are you trying to divert the topic like others by pretending this is about racism because your view lacks substance?The most fearful terms I hear are from Refugee advocates that want to silence the other side.  On media this is through false claims of racism because they cant be bothered trying to understand another point of view.  

If there is anything stopping people writing articles to the drum it is probably fear of refugee advocates taking things too far.  Its amazing how many times "peaceful" protests require masks or weapons. 

If the ABC is only getting one view, then it needs to question how to reach the rest of Australia.  This could be by hiring its first conservative commentator or opinion writer.  They have plenty of lefties on the payroll.  It could be by the editor choosing topics that more of Australia wants to hear.  

When I see people claiming "our ABC" needs to be saved, I have a rare moment of agreement.  Their ABC needs to be saved by them paying for it.  It is certainly not Australia's ABC any more.The ABC did a first by offering a counter opinion article for Hamas/Palestine with a link.  

As this is not really a breaking news opinion piece, the ABC could of attempted to find a counter article or different opinion before publishing.  Unfortunately, it will keep its line of accepting any asylum seeker arrival.Ignorance?  Can you offer an alternative that explains what will happen with the 50 million registered, those that can not afford people smugglers and those (like Reza) that try to migrate for economic reasons?

The scary thing is the lack of international perspective the Greens have.  It truly is a bubble world they live in.That is what is being suggested.  With no details given of persecution in the article and having not made any verification attempts of the authors history, both of you are making massive assumptions.I dont blindly follow a governments definition.  I know departments make known systematic errors in order to please the political head.  The decision by a department is only valid if I trusted the departments processes at the time.  

I believe the immigration procedures where better in the Vietnam eara than early 2000s.  That dosnt mean there has been evidence displayed.  It could simply have been a lot of people wanted entry and a manager was told to get them through.  You never know.At the very least you are promoting those with financial and physical means above those without them by accepting the assessment of arrivals before those already waiting in the refugee camp.  

The result will be people doing the exact same thing as they see the benefits.  If I had to tell a story to shorten an application process by years with the added benefit of better housing and my first preference pick of destination, I would tell a story.  Facts be damned.  

The problem with the form of undocumented refugee acceptance is that people will learn what the Australian governments political opinions are and through people smuggling coaching, apply directly to these opinions by telling stories that meet the prejudice.On job applications people tell "white lies" for advantage.  It would be the same for anything else.  

Just because a department has resources to assess a financially advantaged refugee (strange you think it does when budgets where repeatedly blown under the ALP), that does not mean Australia should assess them or help them ahead of the other 50 Million or so.  

I have no doubt there are true stories amongst the boat and plane arrivals.  What I doubt is that these people have more harrowing stories or are more in danger than those whom have been unable to leave or are stuck in a UN camp.So what country do you think is more humane?  Australia has one of the highest permanent resettlement rates of refugees in the world.  

I was far more ashamed at ALP/Greens policies resulting in hundreds of deaths each year and awarding limited places to those that where less deserving of them.Wow, you take a peaceful and prosperous first world country and claim people can be a refugee from there.  

Any country someone cant be a refugee from?If we where honest regarding working visas, we would send many home.  
457 visas are a joke.  There is no need for a skills shortage, just a hiring willingness.  I suspect if you charged companies just $1 an hour for any 457 worker to go to an Australian skill shortage training fund, the majority of the "skilled workers" would be replaced.I personally believe if an "Australian" dosnt live in Australia more than they live in any other country, they are not that Australian.  

Its a strange thing that I am technically British when I have been there for less than a year.  I couldnt care much about the country, I dont know what is in its best interest and i have even less concern over Britain than I do Australia's neighboring countries.  

Its strange I could actually vote.  At the very least Australia should remove compulsory voting for anyone currently overseas.  This would ensure the completely clueless dont vote.It appears Ian Verrender knows more about the mines that are being purchased than the purchasers.  

Mining isnt done for fun.  It is done for profit.  Of course some mines will not deliver a profit as per any investment.  The mining sector will also have times of increasing and decreasing growth.  

I trust the individual who has looked at the potential mines yield and operation dynamics far more on whether the mine is profitable.  I am sure mining bodies look at projected growth in demand and that is also factored in.  

A collection of mining experts may know more about a potential mines profitability than an expert journalist.Tom1, it may amaze you to know that government schools are attended by religious and non-religious people.  I am sure the number of Chaplins and others will be met by demand of their services.Oaktree, just because you would "deliver" something in a different manner dosnt make it a broken promise.  The ABC's six broken promises are mainly associated with asylum seekers where I see a significant improvement.  

There is a "cut" to the ABC which is because predicted increases in budget where not delivered (cutting another parties promise is a broken promise it seems) and on medicare one type of program was replaced with a very similar linked program.  

You may think you speak for the Aboriginal people more than Abbott does.  I hold the view that no one speaks for Aboriginal Australians as they dont have any truly representative body.Today I went to a university and saw a sign
"Unhappy birthday Chris Pyne".  Attacking the man just makes the critics look grubby.  I know the education cut backs to university students are not popular amongst university students.  Neither are taxes on people that already complain being taxed too much.  Nor is the increasing budget debt.  

Until one party can actually have an economically stable budget and socially sustainable ideology there will always be hard switches and times unpopular governments are left in place.  

Labor lost because they where spending like drunken sailors and did not implement one decent idea successfully.  The current opportunist attacks without solutions does not address the matter.  It will need to be an incredibly unpopular budget come election time where much hype would have passed for the ALP to be accepted back.  As long as the ALP rallies against any cuts and fails to propose tax raises it cant even attack the Liberals for continuing to get us further into debt.Outraged, are you really outraged that there is an accurate perception that the poor drive less?

I would be worried if a politician thought the poor drove as much.  Considering the ALP supported a carbon tax on electricity and the Greens are opposed to road building and the current cheapest form of power (coal)

This is not about the poorest.  Its a political opportune move to tie ill feelings of government against the love of an individuals car.Skeleton, if you know better than Treasury analysis, please reveal your modelling.  The research shows the richest people consume the most petrol.So Jangle, you dont use the roads that the government pays for when traveling?
Or do you want others to subsidize your lifestyle?

If you are driving 3-4 times the average as its required, your property is almost certainly in a location that does not suit its usage.  

And if you are supporting offspring in Brisbane, why are they not supporting themselves?  Its what many Australians are forced to do.@Jangle
If you are going off farm for income, is your property really a farm?  Its not producing any profit.  Since you are against living in a city, could you imagine what would happen if everyone drove from their "farm" sized property?  It would be utter madness with gridlock and there would not be any accessible public transport.  Others may wish to have a bigger property but circumstances have lead them to a town or city lifestyle.  

It is your choice to support adults.  When going to university I managed to keep my head above water by working and receiving youth allowance.  There are many ways.  

So it appears my assumptions where correct, yet they where not really assumptions when revealed in what you said.  Your property is not being used appropriately which could be for multiple reasons as it is not a productive farm and your children could be supporting themselves.  

Just because you wish to spend money on your children dosnt mean you cant afford part of the cost of roads that you use.  You could easily afford a fuel excise that is consistent with inflation.  
Yank is anti-Abbott on everything.  The facts dont matter here.  
Even with GST, its only 0.44c per liter.  Its easier to pull out numbers from the air and imagine all the bad that could follow.  Just dont do it with a carbon price.When the ALP and Greens together hold zero rural seats AND only try and bring up the topic of the over focused Western Sydney electorates, I really dont think rural Australians are the oppositions concern.  

The nationals are the only party that try to represent rural Australia.Jiutso, that only works if driving around is fun.  

If it is for fun, I would want to discourage it for a number of reasons including air pollution, road congestion, noise pollution and road costs.  

The poorest drive the least because the poorest are most likely to use public transport.Steve, try a bit less sarcasm and try using fact.  I know its hard as you have no facts to back you up.  

The poorest dont drive.  If you do drive yourself, then you are rich enough to pay for the car.  Not all are in that situation.  There are always people worse of than you.  Would you have these poorer people pay for you to drive through their taxes?  Roads cost money and the pollution cars cause costs money.  Why should anyone else pay for your choice not to use the most efficient and cheapest options (public transport, walking, bikes).

And ps, the poorest may use public computers, they are unlikely to have one of their own especially with an internet connection.  I cant remember the last time I saw a beggar on an iPhone.  

pps the public transport system has been improving in almost every city.  The greater number of people has lead to a greater number of services.  If you live in any capital and dont use public transport that is because you believe you are too good for it.Olive, what numbers are you using to get that $2 a week?  Even if I round up to 50c now, it two years unless inflation has made everything four times the price, there is no chance that it would cost that.  

The problem the Liberals may be facing on this issue is mathematical incompetence by the public.If anyone is seriously doubting the poorest drive the least, they need their heads examined.  
What it really shows is the love Australians have for their cars.  There are demands for parking spaces so close, opposition to speed cameras, opposition to parking fees, opposition to road tolls, opposition to insurance and much more.  

If you are in the poorest of society and live in a city (or even close to a shop) there are a variety of cheaper ways.  I use them myself. Like most people, I dont need to drive to work.  Unlike most people, I choose not to.   

I have no problem to paying more for petrol because my cheap car ($4000) only needs to be filled one a month.  

What I hate is the idea that i should subsidize gluttonous use of the roads.  If you are rich enough to pay for a car, petrol, probably a parking space and if you are a risky driver a frequent speeding fine whilst expecting tax payers to pay for the roads everywhere.  

Then you are rich enough for a petrol tax to be kept level with inflation.Its all very well for statistics to say things are worse elsewhere.  
Its an entirely different story for someone who has applied for countless jobs and sees no end in sight.  

The concern of unemployment should be that it rises.  
Sadly this is being drowned in the actions of people who prefer to criticize the US rather than consider the issue.  If this wasnt a US hatred thing, we would be comparing ourselves with Canada, other European countries, New Zealand and more.If a disease or condition was to kill a child in a few hours, days or weeks would your opinion change?

Where do you draw the line?
How can we forbid the choice of screening when our society gives all other choices to the parents?

There is a big difference to me between screening for hair color (which is very unlikely to predetermine health or happiness) compared to genetic diseases which can very predictably lead to shorter lives, higher medical costs on the family and society as well as mental and physical stress on the parents.I personally have never been in such a situation as to have medical advice telling me that a child will have a serious medical condition.  What is scary is the number of people that believe they should control another persons choice and life without knowing all the impacts on the entire family, individual and wider society.  

I know a few happy families with a severely disabled child (one with down syndrome), I also know two parents whom have committed suicide and many adults that exhibit signs of stress.  

Its not an easy call to make and its not a decision that will just impact one life no matter what is done.  
As a male I have no real choice.  My partner on the other hand does.  The only choice I would have is whether to pay maternity or be active in the child's life if they are conceived.  The last part is very easy to decide.Question A: Not at all.  Check the laws, especially if you engage in sexual intercourse with the opposite sex.  
B: Any disabled child is known to cause longer term mental health impacts to both parents.  The financial and time requirements will have a health impact.  
C: See above.  Suicide could result
D: If a parent wishes to have the child, they could engage in the correct bodies/circles to help them prepare thus assisting the child's development and reducing B
E:  See B, C and DMagaret, I understand and agree with your point
Sadly "every child a wanted child" would need to include a government issued license for parenthood.  I doubt many Australians want anywhere near that level of government interference.If we are going back to the natural process of birth, we would outlaw surrogacy.  There is nothing natural (as in exhibited by other species) in a female and male putting their genetics inside a second female in order for the second female to expend all the reproduction energy in order to produce offspring that is not of the second females.
  
In the case of any artificial insemination, there is a known increase of creating offspring that are unable to reproduce themselves.  The mono-genetic stage has been greatly tampered with.  

Adoption is exhibited by some animals in situations (penguins are one example)
And such things as sexual or reproductive enhancements are also not used.  

Neither is cutting open the mothers stomach to save both mother and baby or drugs to ease the process.And what do you think would have happened to a disabled child then?  Many mammals (tigers, bears, zebras etc) will abandon the sick and feeble in order to ensure the other offspring survive.  

That is a very natural approach.  Moral is another question.Compared to the past where it was acceptable to put the disabled in cages, freak shows and hide them for life..

Our day and age is very accepting and welcoming of disabilities of all kinds.A disabled child requires more time and care.  People have a finite amount of both.Jimmoles do you include those who are pregnant with a disabled child?

I am very slow to judge a persons choices and beliefs but if you really believe that only a small group in a matter that will inevitably consume social resources (taxpayer dollars, medical staff, support groups etc) are the only people entitled to have a view, I could only agree with you if it was a decision contained only within the family circle.  

Those against genetic testing are trying to enforce time and resources from many others.  What I question is if they know the true costs from mental health and relationships for parents to reduced resources for others.  I hate the idea of anyone being judged for choosing on a very complicated matter.Do you understand what risk means?  A risk only indicates chance.  A dice may be higher than 1, 5 times out of 6.  That does not mean you cant roll five 1's or even more in a row.  The risk of getting a number other than 1 does not change no matter what a few cases may be.I wish the article had to source something before making that statement.  The word most indicates over 50%.  Where is the research and is the research detailed enough just to show down syndrome.I already have.  The lack of credible information is the problem.  There are a few cases where around a dozen mothers with a down syndrome screen where followed.  This number is not statistically significant.  

I do not know if the word "most" was used correctly.  I know the author's opinion and that many academics have bias which they try and convince others of during their work.  

"Most" would be critical of a major point not having supportive evidence.There are different sides to screening

For a tax payer, why should I be forced to pay millions for children that where known to incur a high cost?
For a women, its my choice to have a child or have an abortion.  A healthy child can be stressful enough for many.
For the unborn, I want to live

Its so easy for people to judge one another.  What is harder is to face the fact that some will not have the mentality to raise a child, let alone one that needs extra attention.  As women have the right to choose to have sex and abortions, it seems odd if we remove the right for screening.  

As for surrogacy, anyone who tries to form a contract that lasts at least nine months with a foreign person in a foreign country without seeking to know all the finer details is taking a far greater risk than I would ever accept.  

There are many bad scenarios from a person not wanting to give birth to a disabled child out of a sense of shame or changing their mind part way through and seeking an abortion
To a pregnancy causing death or permanent disability to a surrogacy mother with an abortion being objected to by either party
Or even a surrogacy parent fleeing with a child that they have grown attached to.  
And some countries may suddenly decide your family structure or religion suddenly disqualifies you from taking a child.  

Messy situations are sure to follow when you cross reproduction, cultures, jurisdictions and values especially when one country is in a period of political change and does not have the best enforced or clearest laws that are written in another language to begin with.Dr Ainsley Newson, as a lecturer in bioethics

Could you please provide a link to research that says most parents do not choose an abortion after finding their child has down syndrome.  

I find it strange that a n article with a major point does not have any support whilst there is a link to the amount of knowledge women have in a well structured study, I would hope there is similar research before such a claim is made on parental choice.  

Hopefully the DRUM staff allow an important and informative minor edit.  
Or you could just respond to this post.Two items I agree with you that you need a card.  The other would be a house.  
For your phone and internet connection, of course the private company will be keeping some data.  A huge part of that reason is to bill you properly.  Both you could live without if you choose.  You would just be consigning yourself to a past generation lifestyle.

The government is another matter.  If you dont want the government on your phone plan, try voting them out.  There was a turn away from the major parties at the election.  The desire for change on many things (including privacy) could be behind that.  

Then use cash.  Its an easy solution.To all those with problems of private companies collecting data:
There may be some that collect information without your permission.  If so try prosecuting them.  

As for fly buys and so on,
If you dont want it try a very simple method
a) Avoid all cards, especially from the store
b) use cash

If it is important enough for you to avoid a company getting data which would improve their sales, pay a tad extra per item.  Its called freedom of choice.  If you want the discount for nothing, then you are asking the freedom of choice to be removed from others.  

Its not hard to see the difference between private company and government data collection.  The difference with government approved data collection is that you can not exit out of it.  There needs to be far higher standards for government.I hope you are kidding Erebus.  Since when has China ever made a decision against their ruling elite?

America is far from perfect.  I would still take a trial there any day as opposed to China (not including Taiwan which is its own country)The budget: largely inherited.  I am sure they would have loved the surplus the ALP inherited, instead they got one of the fastest growing debts in the OECD
Unemployment: See above.  At least they beat the ALP forecasts by 0.25%.  
Punitive actions: It needs to take effect first.  There have been proposals to reduce and harden welfare payments, but they havnt passed.  How can they have delivered before delivery?Monty, fact check is not a reliable source.  
What fact check dosnt point out is the season or potential of a new government creating uncertainty for boat arrivals.  

The ABC is not a impartial source of information.  
What it could point to is over half a decade under the Liberals where no one drowned in the ocean, a year where only one person arrive, the predicted number of refugees in the world compared to arrivals by boat to Australia and the near six months without an arrival.  

The Liberals took a harder stance and results ensued.  I know the human rights lawyers and refugees in Australia activists but not foreign countries hate this, that dosnt make the facts go away.  

The Liberals have been very successful in comparison to the ALP's no offshore, recreate offshore, try people trading and once again recreate offshore approach.Indonesia: After spying and instant cattle bans by the ALP, I admit it was a rocky start when border lines where put in place once again.  Border is less of an issue now as there are far less boats
Motor industry: If I have a small private company not making a profit.  Why dont I deserve a bail out?  The motor industry is a drain on jobs by taking tax dollars to produce cars to be sold overseas.  Good riddance
hope of NDIS: Dosnt funding need to be found before a hope existed?  NDIS was never funded.  It was a fools promise where one could get whatever they needed.  Money isnt limitless.  See complaints about debt.  
Budget rejected by voters: Sure.  If I believed in promises of fairy land I would reject the budget too.  Sadly only one side of politics has any intent to lead Australia to living within its means.The difference is quite simple.  Is the new group a threat to your way of life.  

Considering ISIS is teaching people to believe all of Europe and America are infidels (I assume Australia is in that category) and calls for the death of infidels

There is a choice.  Do we wait for an army to be organized and then engage or engage before an army is organized.In the Western world we keep brain dead people alive on machines without seeking their permission.  We spend so much in hospitals to keep people alive.  

If the option is a slow death or a quick death, why shouldnt we enable a quick death?  

Euthenasia is about choice.  Some believe they know what is best for others.  I would just like to enable the legal right for the individual (or closest loved ones if unable to confirm their thoughts) the choice.  

There is nothing kind about forcing food and liquid down a persons throat for years when they dont know where they are and are in pain.  
Its a bit kinder to avoid some treatments to speed up the process.  
Its kindest to enable the death to be as quick and painless as possible.  

People put down their pets all the time out of compassion.  Yet we do not extend this compassionate choice to people.  Its a strange world we live in.Circus?  What has the Senate done that is ridiculous?  

Overlook the ABC hating Palmer and secretly wanting the Greens to hold balance of power
What has happened is a few gaffed with the most important job (that is passing legislation following debate and consideration) largely achieved.  

As the Senate has not even been in for a month, it is very early days.  To already call it a circus just reflects upon the media circus.You take one story as a view of long term agenda?

I consider the fact that election comedy teams are always missing if the ALP has been in power
I consider the fact that it was never considered a circus nor was balance of power looked at in any detail when the Greens hold it
I consider the stance that the ABC has repeatedly taken on Asylum Seekers
The ABC's staff from Drum to news to shows like Q &amp; A

At the same time there is a story about Liberal leadership speculation and prejudging Palmer before his party has been in power.  I expect all gaffes to be published, unlike Julia Gillard's gaffes and for the ABC to keep its long held left wing position.  

What I hope for is the ABC to actually state why it exists.  Inner city leftist views can be covered by commercial media.I think it just shows the lack of understanding in the Senate.  

The real question is can the minor parties bring a new view or debate topics that the government hopes to pass?

If they can, they can debate topics.  Like it or not, some women in Australia support Jackie Lambert's notion of an ideal man and others support changing, removing, altering and many other things to nearly every single piece of legislation in existence.  

A diverse and less intelligent group of people produce better results than a non-diverse, intelligent group according to Harvard.  If so, diversity in our government should be welcomed.I doubt the parties are quality for Australia when attention is given to infighting and party image over Australian interests  

A few more rogues will work well in at least raising new topics.although in this case Dove, I am not convinced on less intelligent.  It is certainly more diverse and perhaps more intelligent.  

Many of the party hacks that would be lower on the Senate tickets have not showed great intelligence.Graeme, there is no way Abbott could have passed things through the Senate.  The Greens had balance of power then.  I suspect when some independents realized this, they recognized they had no choice but to work with the ALP.  

The Greens are just the left wing of the ALP like the Nationals are the rural wing of the Liberals.Then how can they vote for people in the Senate?A very mature view.
Unfortunately, many seem to believe democracy is getting their way.  Debate is them shouting down another.  

The worst thing for democracy would be ignoring an election.I am glad politicians dont keep some promises.  I am glad Rudd did not keep fuel watch or grocery watch.  

The Liberals promised no tax raises and next to no cuts to bring the budget to surplus.  The highest importance is a balanced budget.  This is something the ALP still refuse to admit was an issue when we had one of the fastest growing debts in the OECD.An election is the best means of getting the publics will.  The problem is too many voters have no idea who they are voting in due to their own willful ignorance.  

In the end, Australia gets the politicians it deserves.Cost would be the biggest reason.So 8% of voters dont think a house that is required to agree in order for new legislation to come into effect is important.  
Another 31% think the government (fancy way of saying majority in House of Representatives) think that the government should have the majority effectively making the Senate useless for its purpose of review.  

Would it therefor be around 39% of voters that would be in favor of abolishing the Senate because they dont understand why it exists or believe it has no actual value?  They did that in Queensland.  Should be possible Federally.  

It appears they think the Senate is pointless or should just say yes anyway, so why have it?  

Then add 27% who really have no opinion about the matter.  If they dont understand what they believe the Senate should do (and disappearing is an answer) then how can they vote for people to go into the Senate?  

Considering 66% (or 2/3rd of voters) dont believe the Senate should function as it is now or really dont understand or care what balance of power means....

Is it any wonder we keep on electing corrupt politicians and have a low standard of political debate?

ps.  I would like independents and minor parties to hold the balance of power as it at least stops a dictator being in for three years and gives options to pass legislation through.  With the right people, extremist views can be ignored and contentious issues debated and new ways achieved.I have no problem with an odd bail out if it is the national interest.  I just have a few requirements
1) An apology from the board
2) Removal of all bonuses and a reduction in salary for all staff/board members to $100,000.  

If they have cash to splash for a million dollar salary, they have cash to fix up the mess.  Perhaps the potential of jail time will convince the board to live off a mere six figure salary instead of seven for a year.  

Too big to fail should be big enough to make amends.I wouldnt mind that Applaudanum.  I would just be very cautious of any government decision other than if it had shares (which seems to be what you are talking about).  

A buy out of shares could be one way of performing the bail out which dosnt require company permission.  Once a significant share is in place, I am sure pay decreases could be voted for.Overpopulated
Russia is a lowly populated nation in density terms.  

According to Wikipedia, out of the 100 most populated nations, only Kazakhstan, Canada and Australia are less dense.  

Then Russia also has very expansive energy reserves which has allowed them to do a deal with China which is the biggest country to country contract ever signed.  Europe is largely dependent on Russian energy supplies.  

Russia has been having consisted and high economic growth despite a slow decrease in population.  

Russia was a major cause of the Germans loosing WW2, is still near the top of space technologies and has close ties with both China and India.  It also has a veto power in the UN

If you ignore Russia in Geographic, Political, Economic and Strategic terms, I would agree with your statement.Dialog only works when both sides want to talk and there is some mutual ground.  

This is not always the case.  

The Germans and Japanese could have never been talked out of WW2, the North Korean regime does not wish to discuss democratic reform as it will result in their own deaths and terrorist groups cause people to believe their like will be better after their death.Taswegian, you have shown how poor your knowledge is.  

When Abbott makes homosexuality a criminal offense, controls the courts, rigs elections and hides support of a foreign uprising, you may be close.  

If you are concerned about moral leadership, perhaps you should care about the 1000+ dead that the ALP caused during the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd government with their border policies or their acts of spying against our neighbors or the flip flopping on the most important moral challenge of our life time (climate change).  

Yet, I am sure morals need not be considered if they are against your politics.when did John ever say he approved of the actions?

In war, the wrong group can accidentally be targeted.  I have heard no evidence that it was deliberate.  

It was not a case of terrorism.  It was a case of mistaken identity.It may be because Hamas was firing rockets into Israel after months of peace and non-combat by the Israeli's, Hamas is still moving weapons in civilian areas and Hamas rejected the Egyptian peace offer.  

Not much can be done when people are desperate to fight to the death.  Hamas has deliberately chosen to sacrifice its own citizens.  

No one on the flight chose to be sacrificed.So you support the indiscriminate fire of rockets into Israel?

I wonder what the Palestinian refugees asking for Israel's protection believe.  Scary stuff is going on by Palestinians attacking Palestinians to make them think the occupier of some lands is the better choice.  

Palestine has some areas of dictatorship and some areas of anarchy.  When they stop producing refugees and attacking, Israel may make another peace offer which concedes large amounts of taken land.  

At the moment, those in charge of Palestine have no care about the lives they take.  Israel can either do nothing whilst being bombed or at times act to disrupt the weapons routes.Why are you thinking of invasion GBE?  What is going through your head.  The evidence is quite strong that Russian equipment in the hands of rebels accidentally shot down a plane.  

My problem is how far we extend this.  I am sure American made guns are in the hands of ISIS at the moment.  Do we extend the blame to America for the deaths there based solely on that?  Or do we have an arbitrary moral decider of whom it is appropriate to supply what weapons to?As a sovereign nation, we can decide which foreign citizens may enter. This applies to refugees, skilled workers, diplomats and even foreign politicians.  

We may not be able to refuge Putin entry to the G20, we can however refuse him entry into Australia.  

It would most likely be a foolish move, but we have the power.Much of the unsaid power of Russian condemnation comes down to China.  If China is onside, it becomes much harder for Russia to locally play it as a Russia v West issue.  

It would be interesting to know how the Chinese foreign minister is playing the matter.  

I suspect they will object to a resolution and potentially veto if Australia points the finder directly at Russia.  

A trigger happy rebel (probably with Russian equipment) shot down the wrong plane.  As much as many will hate to admit it, it wasnt a case of terrorism.  It was a wrongly identified target in a war.  

In many ways this is closer to manslaughter as the concern over death (if it was a enemy plane ready to bomb/fire or gather intelligence) would very reasonably cause a reaction in any armed fighter.  

Every country should consider what they call it very carefully as I am sure every country has had a case of enemy confusion during combat and accidentally killed civilians.  Most of the west just didnt care until their civilians died.  

Whether people believe certain regions of Ukraine should be independent or not or part of Russia or not (I personally want a peaceful and decent referendum, not a Crimea style one), there are people fighting over this very matter and as per any war, innocent civilians will die.Agreed.  Until there is a request for help and a path of help that all sides can agree will approve things, I dont see why Australia, America or any other country should try to stop the endless cycle of hate in the Middle East.  The sad fact is that they cant.  

Those who try and kill others of a different religion, who support honor killings, who prevent females being educated, who prevent democracy and who buy arms are the ones that need to act. They need to act very differently than they are acting now.How dis-empowering.  

Surely the people with the most influence regarding Iraq
Surely the people with the most interest in Iraq
Surely the people who matter most in Iraq

Are the Iraqis.  

I know the US and West did not help with invading.  They at least tried to install a democracy afterwards.  The mass murdering Saddam Hussein (who must of caused a few problems with the odd act of genocide) probably had an influence too.  

Lets not pretend that it is all the Western leaders fault.  Last time I checked they where not advocating some Muslims to kill other Muslims, for dictators to kill anyone who slightly threatened their personal profit, honor killings, avoiding female education or settling issues with guns.  

There are many problems with (the area probably soon to be known as formerly) Iraq.  

If they divide along lines of race due to a history of racism and religious persecution, there is not much to do.  I know that keeping a mass murdering dictator in power may have been the wiser move.  It would have probably delayed this current mess by a decade or two at least.I find it difficult to respect a motorist.  So consumptive of tax dollars for the construction of roads.  At least a cyclist pays back their slight usage through their improvements to health.  

I use to ride but it became too dangerous due to idiotic motorists.  I was once abused for using a bike lane.  Apparently a car that needs to slow down a bit before crossing a bike lane is too big an ask.  

When government created cycle lanes arnt safe due to poor road behavior, its hard to go anywhere.  

Sure I have seen a few cyclists do silly or dangerous things.  Yet almost every time I sit in a car I see at least one person speeding, changing lanes without indicating or crossing a red light.  Motorists are far worse.  

I say this today as a frequent public transport user (cheapest personal way to travel), walker, occasional driver and monthly cyclist.In Canberra, the paths you are talking about are designed for pedestrians.  Part of the problem is the above posts.  Cyclists will be told they are in the wrong no matter which path they take.  Pedestrians want them off the footpath (which is breaking the law in most states assuming you are over 12 years old), cars want them off the road.  

Unless there is a nearby dual purpose or bike path, the cyclist has no choice but to use the road.  The problem is that bike paths are very few in number.If a car hits a pedestrian, death is a real possibility.  
If a bike hits a pedestrian, death is far less likely.  

Kinetic Energy = 1/2 mass x volume x volume
 
A bike at 20km/hr (assuming 100kg total weight) is slightly less dangerous than a car at 1000km total weight at 7km/hr

Cars will always be more dangerous for causing injury.  I think the government insurance can handle the few and far apart occasions where a cyclist hits a pedestrian.Ah, so you want to be limiting exercise by children and making them pay more to the government?If you want to splash around your money on motor vehicles, I dont really care what taxes or fees you pay on them.You realize that the poorest people often resort to using bikes dont you?  
I hope you also realize this is a form of exercise.  Cyclists actually save the government money by demanding less on the health budget after exercise.  

Do you care to get a license before you buy a football as that may be kicked on the road or used in public?  Then there are also issues for children riding to school.  How young do you want to license or would you prefer to limit transport options to education?

I personally would be happy to pay a bike license IF the state and local government portioned funding to the amount paid on licenses.  

Considering near $5 Billion was spent by NSW on roads each year, if just 5% of the fees was gained by bike lisences, $500 Million in NSW would be the start.  

Unfortunately, there is no easy to access funding for bike lanes.   I doubt anywhere near that amount was spent.Could it have something to do with a dangerous person in a car easily being able to kill others whilst a cyclist is far more likely to hospitalize themselves?

Then you may also wish to think about cycling as a form of exercise.  They dont have any car treadmills at the gym.Rattan, the treatment has limited effect.  Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Carbon will need to go somewhere.  

The amount in any ecosystem will alter what can live there.  As with any element or compound, its not the existence that is the problem.  Its the amount and location that matters.  Humans at least have the capability to decide where it should go.Science is only that when the media tries to explain things it knows nothing about.  

Many believe the word science offers them impunity although with just a few questions you can determine they have no idea where their "facts" came from in both form of report and method of gathering data/information.Last time I checked, there was only one science graduate in parliament.  They where in the liberal party and did not believe in climate change.  

People elect union officials, political staff (essentially union officials) lawyers, accountants and economists.  There are exceptionally few that do not fit into one of those categories.  

Business research has demonstrated that having a diverse group of less intelligent people produces better results than a non-diverse group of intelligent people.  I suspect that the county would improve if people turned their back on the usual applicants that keep on seeking entry into parliament.Australia is managing its own internal population growth.  What we are not managing is our migration.  Australia has a huge level of migration in terms of percentage of citizenship.  Family visas, 457 visas, student visas and refugee visas (probably in that order) account for so many people arriving in Australia every year.  This is despite the majority of Australians not wanting the population to grow. 

Business wants population growth.  It is the slack way for the existing to increase profits and they get a greater choice of unemployed people to exploit.Palmer is (or at least was) intelligent enough to make himself a fortune from his own activities with very little base.  

I doubt he believes he is going to make a fortune from politics.  He has an inflated ego after life success.  That is what lead him to politics.  

Considering the current lack of carbon price, perhaps the Greens or ALP care about the longer term but they are inept at implementing something for the longer term.The mythological jobs are a very risky gamble for those already employed in any energy producing or energy using industry.  

The problem with the removed carbon scheme was
1) The very high price by international standards
2) No consideration of foreign based producers not needing to pay the tax for imports
3) No consideration of foreign based producers not needing to pay the tax for exports.  

The fact you cant see the link to higher costs of production only in Australia and the loss of jobs in Australia is exactly why their where concerns.  

I never doubted the ability of the price to reduce Australian emissions.  They would almost certainly be exported to poorer Asian countries and perhaps create even more pollution.Costs of energy have will always change.  Normally in an upward direction.  As they will increase unequally, I am not going to enter the fools guess of what the best energy source will be.  

There are basically two choices.  

Distorting the market for environmental or ideological reasons which will force the government and/or consumer to pay more.  

OR

Letting the energy producers try and find the most efficient option.  

I trust the energy producers to try and find the best option more than I trust a government body to accurately change the market to lead them to a longer term better option.  Power stations are created on the basis that they will work for well over a decade.So The ABC's solution to increasing debt is to keep a tax and approve less business activities.  

Didnt the ALP try that, only to result in one of the fastest growing debts in the OECD?  Oh well, ideology need not pay attention to a proven failure.  

So far the Liberals have achieved higher employment that forecast under the ALP and have made savings on a range of government departments through abolishing and merging all without the sky falling in (although the removal of public servants remains a joke). 

There is much to be improved.  Some has already been approved in the change of government.  Savings on boarder protection more than cover the direct action policy and no new partly funded ideas (NDIS, not Gonski) have been floated or claimed to have been achieved.  

I dont expect that to be mentioned by the ABC anytime soon.I never said anything about tax being implemented on any social group meretith. I noted the ABC appears to be supporting what the ALP tried and its result.  Care commenting about that?

Try reading it again first.  

I focussed on expenditure.  I have worked in all levels of government.  In the federal government especially, there is plenty of waste and unneeded tasks that get done.  I suspect half the staff of most Federal departments are poorly utilized.The Liberals have not worsened one forecast that was made under the ALP.  Considering the ALP's very optimistic predictions (eg budget), this is quite an achievement.Look at the expenditure reports.  It was never $400k per person.  If it is that much for an individual, you should question why the security needs to be that high when they are in safety.  

Less arrivals have resulted in less expense.  There has also been less death and a greater ability for Australia to select refugees whom have waited longer in UN refugee camps.  

What part of this are you against?"why should borders be protected"

Well in you are in favor of open borders, that is your opinion.  The results are known.  

It is still a saving.  The Liberals are coming in UNDER budget on their asylum seeker programs when they already predicted a cut from ALP expenditure.Why dont we call a growth on house prices what it is - Inflation.  

We dont consider inflation on food, electricity, health or education a good thing.  Why do he consider inflation on housing a good thing?  It just makes the product more unaffordable.  

What is really needed is a government that claims property is not an investment.  Its an asset that needs to be worked hard to generate a profit.  Its a social necessity.  Its a limited resource.  Its many things, but an investment just makes housing suitable only for the richest.Agreed DT

I personally suspect the media is responsible for a lot of todays bad policy decisions.  There is a demand for an instant answer and instant criticism if it is changed.  

I wish politicians could tell the media to get lost until their research is complete.  Unfortunately voters have come to expect politicians know all things immediately.  If a minister has 1000 staff under him (many have more), it is ridiculous to expect they know what every staff member has been doing every minute.  There will be filtering through some form or reporting mechanism.  

The media has no tolerance for filtering and will quickly accuse the minister of incompetence if they do not know within an hour.I realize something very unique about this article.  A sense of humility.  

Instead of pretending to know exactly what teachers need to do, a report that states what a range of teachers feel and do is looked at and conclusions are not stretched from the results.   

Unusual, yet welcomed from an academic.  Pity those who dont even have a qualification in education will believe they know how teachers should teach.  I expect posts below from non-qualified people will preach the magical solution to education woes.White Collar crime could become a true and effective privatization of security.  Register individual white collar crime investigation firms with maximum contracts covering an organization for a few years before their competitor takes over.  Make sure each one can go back ten years.  

If any action is started by a company that leads to successful prosecution, give the company 10% of the ill gotten gains that the crooks got.  The government can balance the rest.  

What a change of culture you would have when there is a real drive to find systematic frauds and significant amounts stolen.  It would be amazing to see the individual technologies that would be created to discover this.  ASIC has been a wimp for far too long.  Its time ASIC lost its position as it dosnt deserve it.Michale Kirby was always a unique and well reasoned voice in the High Court.  
What I question is how a demand for justice could possibly work when what we would be facing is an armed system whos rulers want continuation.  

Our demands will likely not get through.  There are always financial sanctions which will hit the poorest and more innocent the hardest.  

Then there is military action against an armed power.  

I dont believe there is a suitable solution.  There is a big difference between high court demands or demands to an open nation like Australia.  

North Korea is not open, it has no need to listen to its people, it has no reason to allow democracy when its leaders will face violence and war crime charges.  Why exactly would the North Koreans care about the worlds demands?  They didnt on nuclear weapons.The media is to blame more than the politicians.  Demands are pressed for instant answers and instant actions.  Instead of media organizations laughing at instant ideas with questions of whether the report had been read/understood there is a demand for instant gratification.  

If we want less showmanship we need a far more patient media.You appear to be confused.  The Federal government is not in charge of state prisons.  The federal government is not in charge of state courts.  The federal government is not in charge of health care services.  

You and the author should focus on the group that has responsibility.  The state.Why is this the Federal Governments responsibility?  Isnt the state government the one that runs the prisons, the one that ran the trial and the one that is responsible for healthcare at least according to our constitution?

To me, this is a STATE responsibility.So Rabbithole, in the mean time you focus on the one that has no legal responsibility because you dont like buck passing?

If it is a private operation, there is room for so many bodies to sue the prison.  I doubt that the prison is private.  State institutions decided upon it.  This does not fall on to the Federal government.  

Somewhere between the healthcare, prison system and judiciary which for this care are all state responsibilities, something has gone wrong.  Are you suggesting Tony Abbott acts outside the Australian constitution and seizes more power?  

If you dont like the constitution, it needs a referendum to change.  Australia couldnt even get enough will to back federal funding of local government bodies.  I doubt that Australians will vote to get rid of states.Breaching the constitution has been a prove disaster for so many countries around the globe.  Just look at any dictatorship.  

Its not "hiding" behind anything.  It is stating who is responsible under the most important document Australia has.  Our Constitution.  

Imagine hte cries of outrage on the ABC if Tony Abbott tried something that was deemed unconstitutional.  This article would quickly be forgotten.And whilst the states retain the right to put people on trial for local criminal matters in the process they deem fit and have almost have unlimited choice how/when they treat or imprison someone, it is still the states that retain the power in this case.  

A treaty can not override state law just as it can not override federal law.  

I accept that exceptions to exist such as terrorism (seeking international attention), drugs trafficking (cross national and international borders), sedition (normally to support a foreign nation).  There is a common theme of being on an international or at least national level.  Petty criminal acts are not on such a stage.  

If the commonwealth passed a law and states wanted a different law in place which was deemed to be their constitutional area (includes health and local policing and prisons), then the states would win in the high court.  

s51 -Treaties that do not override Australian law or state law
s 109 - Inconsistencies dont apply when its clearly a state matter
s 96 - Funding being provided does not mean that local laws should be dictated.Its more mean spirited to accept those that are safe at the expense of those that are at risk.  Australian refugee criteria weak. There are millions seeking refuge.  Why not take the ones at greatest risk?Comrade, there is a difference between skilled workers (people who normally arrive on 457 visas) and asylum seekers (who on balance of probability may not be refugees despite the determination) who could not get in due to their work skills.  

There always seems to be confusion amongst the probably not refugee but lets call them that anyway advocates.When did Australia have a referendum to surrender to international law?
We have a choice if we wish to follow international agreements.  The refugee convention has passed its used by date.  Just as we dont keep the migration policies from the 1950's we should not be keeping an flawed convention from the 1950's"Yes. We do"  If that was in response to my question about a referendum, it is not one.  

We made an agreement during WW2 which was certainly sensible for WW2 between Australia and Germany most of the time.  Not so much Japan.  We also made many other decisions as a nation at that time.  I am glad we are not stuck with 1940's legislation.  Some of it has developed.  

Just because some countries did not uphold an agreement (mainly because they did not agree to it) does not mean Australia voted to surrender its sovereignty to the rest of the world.  

It also proves the folly in believing a western designed piece of paper will actually change the actions of the whole world.  

Australia can choose if it wishes to partake in the 1950 Refugee Convention or if it wants to implement a modern and more successful method of asylum seeker intake.Clive, if the federal executive of the day can decide to abide by a foreign agreement, the federal executive of the day can also decide to reverse a foreign agreement.  
That would make the title of this Drum article inaccurate to say the least.Marilyn, the 10% means you might want to change your statement of refugee.  Asylum seeker is accurate for all, even those that where accepted.  
There may need to be an acronym as "Probably Not A Refugee but we will call them a refugee anyway" is a bit too long.  

Try using PNAR.  If there is a greater chance of them being safe than in danger, they are not actually fleeing from danger.  

I knew for a long time Australia has weak criteria.  Yet this defence by refugee advocates of 10% is ridiculous.  I am 99% sure someone needs help when they are skin and bone.  There are far more desperate people to save than Australia's current PNAR'sJust because you cant bother to understand the other sides point of view, it dosnt make them racist.  

If the aim is to save lives, we should accept no refugees and focus on giving aid to the third world.  

If we are to take refugees for the purpose of saving lives (not through foreign aid), it would make sense to focus on those at greatest risk, not those that can make it to Australia.  The most certain risk would be people facing starvation and death by disease.  I dont see any plane or boat arrivals meeting that criteria.  

If we are to take refugees in the hope of government change to stop continuation, we would need to be focusing on accepting anti-government elements.  This would be quite easy to prove.  

Part of the problem with Australia's asylum approach is we have not decided what we are trying to do.  The ALP/Greens method of taking a word was pathetic and detrimental to every possible goal that a refugee program could have.If Australia can have a 99% chance at saving a persons life, would you choose a person with a current 10% chance of death or 50% chance of death?

Like it or not, the millions in UN refugee camps are desperate and at risk.  There are even more in their own countries that are starving to death.  Pity starvation and disease does not meet refugee criteria.Its not ridiculous as all.  People in varying degrees of danger ask for protection from Australia.  Some the level is none.  Some the level is extreme.  Considering we have a limited number of places, to take a person at lower risk would be at the expense of someone of higher risk.  

Look beyond Australia's borders and look beyond those infront of Australian news cameras whom are often coached on what to say.  

The ones most at risk would be unable to have the kind of contact with the Greens or ABC which probably help form your views.It is far easier to determine whom is of greatest risk
eg: A person who has been on TV and spoken about the military killing people, has had death threats against them and a fatwa OR
a person who was once yelled at by the military.  

If we are going to accept a limited number of people, who is at greatest risk?  Whilst very difficult to change risk into numbers, there will be people who have far stronger evidence that they may be harmed than others.  Should we not even try to process and in doing so prevent those most at risk from entering Australia?If only a 10% chance is required, then many who are not going to be harmed will get in.  If the chance is increased, we are far more certain we are saving people. 

The 40% increase would make Australia 40% more effective in saving lives so long as intake remains the same.  

Here is a question about people happy with he 10% chance ratio.  Are you happy to take someone who is more than likely to be safe at the expense of someone who is more than likely to be in danger?

As for the law, the high court rules on current legislation.  Australia can always change it.  I have never had a chance to remove a high court judge from office.The ALP speaks tough and acts soft.  I would trust the ALP to return to hundreds dying each year in our ocean.  All with tears and the cry that they are being humane.  

The Liberals had a clear policy of stopping the boats.  They have done this for half a year.  That part of their policy was well known.  

As for cuts, the commission of audit as known.  What was not known was the extent of their recommended cuts.  If the ALP details what it will slash and raise, it may get in again.  At present, they dont believe debt is of concern.Only 7 years Graham?

I would bring it back at least 20 years.  I can not recall one year in parliament where question time had answers.  Perhaps its telling of why they only use the word "question"

Still, Rant time appears the most accurate.  

I personally wonder why the opposition dosnt ask itself questions along the line of "please mention all the problems that are in the (insert program)".  "Thank you...  Sadly I only have a few minutes, not a few days"  

Technically there is no party in government.  This is just something that groups of ministers formed.  As such, who is to say the opposition cant ask their own speakers to rant about the governments current problems?

If confronted later, they could say that at least their person gave an answer on topic.So lets boil this down to its core.  The problem is that no side is solely getting their own way
SHOCK, HORROR

There is a need to compromise, discuss and convince people.  

Who ever heard of that in a democracy??Interesting those that support PUP having the balance of power.  
The Liberals are obviously most against it because it forces them to negotiate.  
The Greens are the next least happy about it.  Possibly because it diminishes their own balance of power.  
The ALP in opposition might as well be democratic, probably till they get into power.There are two main parts of honor killings being discussed

What is our interpretation to freedom of speech?  
I personally believe that as long as not advocating for breaking the law, anything should be able to be discussed.  

How are honor killings becoming a relevant topic in Australia?
Most likely this is from migrants who keep their previous cultures values.  Australia should accept that when we accept people from foreign cultures into Australia, they bring their cultures values with them.  Honor killings can easily be a part of it.  Yet we dont even try to screen such values out.The biggest reason for congestion is population growth.  
No party dares approach that topic.  Julia Gillard got closest by claiming to be in favor of a small Australia whilst migration was at an all time high.If the be all goal was jobs, the best we could do is invest in meal vouches at Australian cafes, pubs, restaurants etc
They are the most intensive labor industries in Australia, especially if it is all Australian food.Greens will act to cause problems with the Liberals.  They are effectively ALP left.  Just as Nationals are Liberal Country.  

The Greens could have negotiated about it being simply revenue or at least half funding public transport.  Instead, they prefer the non-negotiation tactic as that will cause maximum problems.I find Rebekah Brooks far more interesting.  The excuse of not knowing criminal practices where occurring despite authorizing the money is basically one of being incompetent.What is the need to have an AAA credit rating when you have no debt?

Australia had one of the fastest growing debts in the OECD, no plan to pay it off (unless you think false promises = plan), had no plan to address the growing public sector, or sections that where growing faster than inflation.  

The ALP has a problem with debt because even today it has no proposal to pay back debt at all, let alone a probable solution.Why is it important for you to spend within your means or any organization to spend within their means?

Eventually someone demands the money back.  The countries with the highest debt perform worst in an economic crisis.  I would prefer some pain now than heaps later on.  

The ALP and Greens have no respect for the budget.  They spend what they wish.  As far as the ALP got is implementing one proposal from the Henry Tax review.Yes, Australia can print more money.  It will make our dollar fall, effect our trades and not solve the  underlying problem.  

Zimbabwe was great at printing more money.  Its not a solution worth contemplating.The Green vote is not the swinging vote.  It is the ALP left vote.  The vote that places little value on money of others, wants "humane" treatment of asylum seekers and others to pay for action on climate change.  

The ALP cant even dare say now that they stuffed up their border protection policies.  They cant admit that their carbon price is one of the highest in the world nor face the fact they lacked a plan to bring the budget to surplus.  

They also lacked the courage to avoid reelecting a party leader that they say fit to dump in the first term.  

The best thing the ALP could do is admit some harsh things need to be done.  They could then pose the choice between the poorest or richest by comparing the ALP to the Liberals.Bill Shortens mother was not mentioned when she was GG.  

Tanya Plibersek is also questionable as her husband managed to get an unadvertised directorate position in the NSW Department of Education despite having a conviction that would have prevented him being a teacher.  

I suspect the ALP will need a new leadership team before they are elected.  

There are a few possible candidates.  Stephen Conroy would be my pickWhat lead the ALP to loosing office?
There was a asylum seeker policy that lead to so many deaths and forced an increase in numbers being accepted.  The ALP is delusional to think the reduction is due to its Malaysia policy.  

There was a battle over leadership.  That is something that Kevin Rudd tried to remove (although he was "the battle"

There was a carbon price which was seen as a complete electoral flip flop and probably the very highest in the world.  Then it also had flaws with its EU links (almost all of Carbon price economies reside).  No change has been proposed and the Carbon price will be removed.  Is the ALP willing to make a workchoices style promise of never again?

Then there was all the bad program management from Pinkbatts to BER to E-health to NDIS and so much more.  As the selection process of politicians is the same and poor performers keep on getting promoted, I dont see this even being addressed.  

2 Denials, 1 largely fixed, 1 fixable.  

The ALP is not winning.  They Liberals are loosing by proposing harsh budget measures with a focus outside of what the public desires.What the older generation had that they youngest dosnt

1 - Steady employment
2 - Affordable housing
3 - Free tertiary education
4 - Markets that wanted youngest people (now the older are the markets)Whitey, wages are still very low.  There are just less remedial jobs.  
Expectations in housing involve luxuies such as water and electricity.  Very important if the boss wants to be able to call you in and have you clean and presentable.  
The tertiary system being harder to get into was a good thing.  Now there are too many graduates so people waste years of their lives.  
And sacking is as easy as ever.  So many to hire, so easy to fire.There needs to be a change in the tertiary education sector.  If universities want government funds, they should be publicly releasing statistics about employment after course completion and have a portion funding subject to how many find relevant work.  

At present there is a financial incentive for universities to provide irrelevant courses as it will force people back in to university to try their luck with something else.1 - On averages, people will have equal interview skills.  The university may also wish to offer a course of interview skills if this is holding people back. If someone truly has valuable skills, the interviewer would take that into account.  

2 - If you want examples.  Forensic Science, So many arts courses, Environmental Science, few branches of engineering (aviation), education courses in QLD have had 90% failure rates to get jobs etc etc

The courses are known to have the majority unable to find relevant work after completion.  Yet they are still offered.  The universities deliberately seek to avoid finding out what happened to their graduates and if they ever do would refuse to publicly release the information.Clarke, going back that far you also overlap it with Global Cooling.  

People have always been fascinated with the weather.  In the past there where gods that made it rain.  Today there are gasses.  We should be cautious about assumptions.  Humans have certainly changed the weather.  Now days it rains more often on weekends than other days.  The issue is that any cut back will effect the poorest the most.  Carbon emissions have let an agricultural and medical revolution exist.  

Climate scientists are only a small part of the discussion that needs to be had.  People like Tim Flannery have no place when he predicts doom that has not come to fruition.   

We need a sensible debate on all areas.  I very much doubt business as usual will wipe out the human race.  There will be challenges to life whether we cut gas emissions now or not.  The difference is where, how and amount.Consensus?  We had one when Rudd and Howard where running for office.  We had both for.  
When Gillard and Abbott where running, both where against.  
When Rudd and Abbott where running, one was for and they lost (for many reasons)

What consensus are you referring to?  If it is one vote in parliament, then the Greens would have implemented the consensus against Rudds ETS when he had a mandate.Individuals will always be worse of with any change.  That is part of the point of change.  Some will benefit, some will not.  With the internet and downloads, video shops have suffered.  Even the best ideas will harm someone.  

A Carbon tax at its core aims to harm the mining industries at the benefit of renewables.  This can be the right thing to do.  It still dosnt avoid the fact that some will be harmed.Really?  A government that has made cuts to spending does not want to focus on those cuts?

The ALP, Greens and PUP have it easy.  They can block without responsibility.  Its a very sensible political choice for the opposition.Dazon, that is because the public service is hopeless.  Its not just on firing staff.  It also includes decision making.  

The public service views endless processes as work.  Businesses view getting the result they want as work.  The focus of the public service ensures that there will be countless hearings.  Right now the public service union is fighting changes to make firing possible.  There may be a first dismissal for incompetence (not theft) if the changes get through.  

I hope they do.Basil, you dont know what a team means.  A business team is not playing a game.  The location is the world stage.  The opposition does not need to exist like a team building a tower and the rules are in flux.v: do you have any concerns about the with or against us of "deniers" "progressives" "socialists party" "red necks" "Tory" etc etc

If you are concerned about language, look no further than the ABC and Fairfax which continues to divide Australia by pretending that we are swamped with racists.  If anything we are swamped with splitters.Who ever said Australians of certain heritages, religions or sexual orientations where not on team Australia.  

The outrage is far more of a political divide and objection to complying with the wills of a country.18C hasnt prevented the "opinion" piece and anti Jewish Cartoon in the Sydney newspaper, threats of death on a Jewish school bus or the latest pamphlet release of Nazi style propaganda.  

Unfortunately, 18C does not seem to apply for any of them.  Just a flawed article written by Andrew Bolt which argued for a cut of funds rather than proposing the removal/deaths of a group of people.  

Strange clause 18C is.One story does not make the case.  Australia remains a migration destination of choice.  Actions appear to speak much louder than words.  

I have no doubts some people act in a racist manner.  An Asian friend I have known for five years recently posted her first event on facebook.  Yet that does not mean her experience has been negative.  An African refugee family kept on calling Australia paradise and bought it up so quickly in conversations.  

Racism is far more evident in many other countries.  The Middle East and Africa frequently have massacres of different religious groups.  Christians in Iraq is a recent example.  So are all countries with a 99% Muslim population.  

In Asia, there is frequent racism against other Asians that would make your jaw drop from your face.  

Australia has some racists.  To pretend it is institutionalized or a majority is ridiculous.  Palmer and Lambert are focusing on a government.  

If a government with one of the highest capital punishment rates in the world, no free media, no opposition, oppressing "territories", claiming ownership of Taiwan, border disputes with all its neighbors, multiple and ongoing human rights abuses by its departments on religious and political grounds, leadership in internet censorship, rampant corruption and a history of spying against Australian companies and governments *phew*
is above criticism, then all countries are above criticism.splod1, thats an interesting belief.  Especially when refugee intake is capped.  

We recently took refugees from the ISIS war. We would have no capacity to do that under previous policies.  I am far more certain of the refugees from Iraq being in immediate and serious danger than the largely economic migrants we where taking.  

If there is a conversation about racism, why would people to supporting death of those in Iraq and many cultures at sea with their policy choice?  There where more than the 1000+ drownings that ALP/Green policies ended.A point with an understanding of Malaysian law.  Ibast I fear such knowledge will not be heard or accepted when the "Australians are racist" cry has some potentialHow do they even determine who is male and female on the internet?

For all you know I could be a grandmother in my 80's.  
Unlikely, yes.  Impossible, no.It would be a useful link for such a statement.  
Questions of how women are defined when profiles could lack gender
How it compares to users use (eg if males are 30% of posts and getting 40% of abuse is the abuse female targeted)
How abuse was defined (search for certain words or human evaluation of context or both)?

All would impact the result.  
The problem should not be that a gender receives more abuse.  It should be that there is abuse.  
So only 69% of social media users have witnessed digital cruelty.

What percentage of road users have witnessed dangerous road behavior?

What percentage of people that leave their house have witnessed physical cruelty?

How many verbal cruelty?

What does that 69% figure mean?"most have not behaved in this way"

I am not too sure how you know most have Jungle Boy.  A community with a high crime rate does not mean most in the community commit crimes.  

There is clearly a cover up and case to answer for.  Assuming most in the Catholic church are guilty is like assuming most Muslims are terrorists.  A reflection based on biases instead of reality.Complicity is the term used in NSW law

from http://www.judcom.nsw.gov.au/publications/benchbks/criminal/complicity.html#p2-720  &lt;my input&gt;

In short then, to establish that [the accused] is guilty of the offence charged on the basis that [the accused] was an aider and abettor, the Crown must prove beyond reasonable doubt each of the following:

1.     that the crime of [specify offence] was committed by [the principal offender] &lt;one who had sex with child&gt;
2.     that [the accused] intentionally assisted [the principal offender] &lt;by concealing facts of crime from government&gt;
3.     that at the time of that assistance, [the accused] was aware of all the essential facts and circumstances that give rise to the precise offence committed by the [the principal offender] &lt;evidence by coverup&gt;
4.     that [the accused] with that knowledge, intentionally assisted [the principal offender] by [specify the allegation and particularise concisely] &lt;moving the priest into a location of unacceptable risk of offending again and refusal to reveal information to police&gt;
5.     that [the accused] gave that assistance so that [the principal offender] could escape arrest, trial or punishment for the offence committed by [him/her]. &lt;thus reason for relocation&gt;


I am not a lawyer.  All I see is very strong grounds for a trial.Concealing an offense is a crime.  We have had countless inquiries and know many church officials acted to protect the church instead of hand criminal details over to authorities.  

Its time charges where laid.No farmer complains when they sell a property to a suburban developer.  

Whilst the best soil is taken by houses, I doubt the farmers want restrictions on who they can sell land to.Percents are all meaningless without numbers to back them up.  Eg
If a school has 10% of a year failing to meet reading standards and another school has 2% fail, the one with 10% could still be better.  If they had 10 students and one with a sever disability, you have the scenario.  

Considering most 2012-13 to 24-25 (how they can tell that I have no idea) is meant to be around 3%, things could still be unsustainable.  

Most of the graphs are meaningless if you do not consider population growth, inflation and revenue change.The voting public has no idea what a plan is.  When Swans book comes out, it will reveal even more short sighted thought bubbles by Rudd.  Yet he was the politician seen as holding the most vision in a generation.  

The Liberals have plans to make many more cuts, institute an overly generous maternity scheme, cut much red tape, stop free visits to the doctor and more.  

Labor had a plan to find funds for promises

The Greens promise their plans are not naive and their intent to fund their promises are not pie in the sky.The interesting part is that the public still has the most faith in the Liberal party by a decent margin in supporting business thus creating jobs.  
Forget class when you are unemployed, you are below all classes and struggling to find food and shelter.  

The Liberals are still on the strength of the budget.  Whilst things are not getting through, without alternatives that are fully funded the ALP will not be going ahead.  

All the Liberals need to do is mention the ALP's broken surplus promises and their predicted $650 Billion debt.  

Its time the ALP reconsidered its willingness to openly support a tax increase on higher income earners.A promise without funds to back it up is worthless.  

WIthout getting the finances in check, the ALP programs never had a chance.  Its the blanket cover for any ideas for the Liberals.  All they need to do is compare the economic predictions and compare goals to bring a surplus into government.  The ALP's goals for surplus states 100 times do not come to fruition.If you are consuming a substance unwittingly, take legal action at the person who did it.  
Why the Knights dont is probably because they cant.  I am sure the doctor would be an ideal person to hand out to dry for the point of winning a few more matches in a  year.Exactly.  The fact they where financially harmed and medicated without their consent both seem to be things that could lead to a seven figure pay out.  The clubs would quickly stop after that.So the best defense for athletes is in.  

"I thought it was a ........."  Nutritional supplement, legal version, different drug etc etc

If there is no evidence that they where duped (perhaps by trying to sue the person(s) that drugged them without their consent, the athletes could prove this), then the excuse is a cop out.Lol v

The ALP stuffed up the tax that they prespent the money it was meant to earn them.  They lost money on a tax.  

I personally dont mind the idea of a mining tax as the resources are limited, extracted and not created.  The idea however that the tax was well designed is ridiculous.  Much like all the ALP tried to implement, the press release was better then the policy.  

You could have summed up your whole rambling with a simple statement.  

The ALP pre-spent their botched estimates.Oaktree the ALP and Greens together hold zero rural seats.  The same number they held during the ALP's time in power.  

The instant legal changes that effect rural businesses, keenness for regulation and pandering for inner city elites all cause problems.  Anyone is welcome to run in a rural seat.  The chance of someone getting it who supports ALP style policies is even more remote.v: cant even get the figures right.  The projected debt was $650 billion for the ALP policies if they continued.  

Australia is still in a position where it needs to decide what to cut or where to raise taxes.  This is one instance where the Greens are actually ahead.  At least they are proposing tax increases.  The ALP has no idea where the funds will come from.  

The currently employment rate whilst worsening remains better than ALP forecasts.  Its sad that we have one party with cuts in the wrong areas, one party that has no backbone and another than thinks taxing and endless government spending is a solution.The current Liberal government is unable to pass most of its intended budget saving methods.  It has failed to negotiate with a party lead by a person who will probably go to jail, its opposition and a party that is even further to the left than its opposition.  

Its a tough act.  A few independents with centralist views in the house of reps where easier that two opposing parties and an eccentric unknown party.  

Debt is still increasing.  The ALP made promises that would have taken the debt well above $400 billion.  Fortunately, promises of unfounded funds where scrapped.  

We are in a situation now of the only economic plan being a plan that has too much focus on the poor whilst the opponents have no plan, just like they had no plan in office.  

The best thing for Australia may be Palmer loosing control of his party ASAP for a power shift.  It would also help if we work out the federation mess.  Australia does not need 9 Departments of Education, 9 Departments of Health, 9 Departments of Indigenous Affairs etc etcSince when was artificial reproduction a one human decision?  Especially when the individuals get entangled with foreign government and want Australia's assistance or arrive back in Australia and want the public to cover all or part of such things as education and healthcare.  

With an ever growing world population, there is no need to permit reproduction through such a minefield of potential problems.I would support government acceptance programs.  People may need a psychologist to accept the fact that they cant or wont reproduce.  Its far cheaper for Australia to do that then try and work out what to do with different jurisdictions, different rights and a process that weakens the human genome.Ursus, most gay and lesbian couples are fertile.  They can reproduce through the exact same method I can.  Hetrosexual intercourse.  Its their choice if they wish to do so.  

Gay people have been parents in the past.  They will in the future as well.  It happens for almost every single animal.  Its natural.  

I agree with you that babies are not a product to be bought or sold.  The whole process of artificial reproduction is very unnatural.  The morals are more questionable.  The legality is complicated.Why focus on overseas adoption?  There are more than enough children in Australia to be adopted.  There is a shortage of suitable parents.  

We should be making overseas adoption harder and Australian adoption easier.  The whole process in Australia should be met with support and even a payment to the parents as there is a great cost saving in taking a child away from a state home.  Something in the order of $5,000 a year would still certainly be a loss to the family yet certainly encourage local adoption.International law is a slow and unruly beast at best.  
Why we accept a foreign market where wombs are rented to produce what could be produced in Australia is difficult.  
If people like Dr Burns want biological parents identified, we have lost a lot of will to make the morally questionable business of artificial reproduction based in Australia.  

Could Australia refuse to recognize people born from an overseas person or adopted by an overseas person as Australian?  The legal, ethical and biological complications make the whole process too costly.  Lets simplify and internalize it.  Reproduction is not a right.  It is a capability.  It should not need government to be as involved as artificial processes demand.There have been so many government targets which are no more than a successful tree and money killing exercise.  It might keep a few executive staff members in the public service busy but that dosnt mean any good results are achieved.  

I remember promises of no child living in poverty, zero waste, stopping boats, stopping all kings of crime, market watching/regulatory departments, new technology and more that all failed to be anything above a good headline.  

The last thing we need is more empty and unobtainable promises.  What we need is a steady improvement in all areas.  The recent decline of wealth by workers is against this.  This is the area we should be focusing on and redesigning.  

At least other areas are showing gradual improvement.v; Once again you show your bias.  Accusing only one party of weasel words when you cant be bold enough to call a party by its actual name.  

Socialist propaganda is also an issue.  Your response is a case in point.A list of statistics.  So what?
There are a few things that unite Australia as a country.  Hopefully one of them is being under the law and another is being able to choose by voting what the law is.  

The rest can be worked out as a society if those two things are followed.  There is a decision to remain within Australia as many have decided to leave and even more have decided to stay.  

Everyone who lives in Australia should be on team Australia no matter where they are originally from or what they believe for one simple reason.  They chose to live here.  

The more difficult part is people believing religious laws, silencing others, violent acts and whatever else are in team Australia's interest.Lol,  you have a selective memory
USA - Still the largest aid donor and permanent refugee acceptor in the world.  It deserves some praise for that.  
Israel - No criticism of Hamas or other terrorist groups that use human shields?
China - Not nice, yet hard to say worse than many corrupt Asian nations including Russia.  Both Russia and China maintain territories by force.  Yet both are certainly better than North Korea.
Saudi Arabia - Almost every African and Middle eastern nation has what you would call cruel and unusual punishments.  In many places a combination of genital mutilation, restriction of women (including education and freedom of movement), public beatings (and worse), high corruption and religious dogma including witch doctors continue.  

In comparison, Australia deliberately kills none of its citizens and does not ask anyone who seeks refuge to arrive here.  We are much like most of Europe in that regard.  Unlike Europe however we resettle more refugees permanently on a per capita and on a total basis.  If you are critizing Australia's approach when drowning have once against stopped, think about the thousands of deaths in the Mediterranean that a refsal to turn back boats has caused.  European soft policy has taken many to watery graves.  So many that no attempt is made on many occasions to retrieve bodies.The main problem I see is our inconsistency with self determination.  We want it for West Papua, not for Scotland and ignore the results of the WA referendum for self governance.Stanyanstreet, I agree to look at our refugee policy.  

We have managed to stop hundreds of drownings a year.  We have also managed to free up places from people we are certain are freeing war.  
Yet there are members of the public that want to stop both of these to advantage people who have the funds to pay criminal syndicates instead.  Their refusal to admit responsibility for drownings and willingness to accept the flimsiest of cases stated in order to migrate for financial reasons over those with impeding certain danger is reprehensible.  

Australia is struggling with its morals and scarily may return to the dark days of the watery grave along side criminal profits.Divide and conquer still your strategy Jones?

When facts fail, character assassinations works well as a substitute.  Grow up and learn to argue your case why polices that lead to more deaths and less certainty of danger for refugees that are accepted whilst profiting criminal networks and the rich are justified.  

Please stop promoting a morally bankrupt policy when those unaware of 10% certainty requirements, effects of criminal networks, sexist and elitist selection, hundreds of deaths per year and seizure of spots from people in more desperate situations.  I am afraid we will return to an Australian policy of mass death and mass fraud whilst you and others think we are being kind.Good point.  How far should the selection of personal politics go.  
If someone is promoting the peaceful political belief that all whatevers should be deported is it appropriate to refuse them service?
If so, why dosnt this extend to a person with a shirt promoting a major political party?

Businesses can choose who they create business deals with.  But businesses choosing who their customers are opens the doors to all kinds of abuses.John, you seem to have a smart approach.  The interesting impact of this is that Australians now need to go overseas if they seek artificial insemination.  

Its a joke.  We change laws that we know will cause problems to law abiding people whilst harming an industry in Australia and placing Australians health at risk by leading them overseas.  

I hope Dr Burns also considers the effects her search is having on others.Erebus, that might work for your family.  Who is to say it will work for others.  
If I was contacted privately (very unlikely to be successful), I would pass on a message that I will call the police the second they arrive on my property, I would refuse to say anything kind to them and that I have no interest in getting to know them or them getting to know me.  In short **** off

Some people will be highly embarrassed.  If you wish to be contacted, why not sign up to be contacted?  The drop in sperm donors once identification legislation was successful shows that most do not want to be contacted, ever.  
What about the rights of the donors current family
What about the impacts of sending artificial insemination of shore thus risking the health of others
And are there any other laws that you want to retrospectively change?  What about the expectation of a contract being upheld?

If someone was created from a sperm donation, they have life.  The drop in sperm donors in Australia is from the effects of people like Dr Burns.  Her moves has stopped people like her from existing.Any other retrospective laws that should be enacted?
The sperm donors donated with the belief that they would remain unknown.  Now there are two choices
Remain silent and hope
Reveal yourself and explain your concerns whilst hoping you are not discovered.  

The idea of retrospective changes to agreements suck.  Who is to say a sperm donor is not with a family and news that they made a donation would trouble their lives.  

If a donor wants to be found, let them say so.  To change the laws on a person who did nothing wrong is ridiculous.  

I hope Dr Lauren fails in her bid.  Its not just her life that this legislation will be effecting.  Who knows what families it will destroy.What do you consider poor?  Poor people might "need" cars to the same extent someone "needs" a beer after work or coffee in the morning or new gadget.  

What people actually need is food, shelter and healthcare.  Many are struggling with those needs and use public transport instead because it is cheaper.  Anyone who can drive to the salvos is richer than most who go to the salvos.  

Need is relative.  As a student I spent near an hour on public transport to go to university.  With a car it would have taken 20 minutes.  That dosnt mean I need a car.  The number of hours I would have needed to work to afford it would have harmed my study if achieved.  

Modelling shows the richer people get the more they drive.  Any reason you are against a tax maintenance structure that takes most from the rich by merely keeping an existing tax at current levels?Interesting the ABC posted my other reply, but when pointing out errors in your top two paragraphs, removed it.  

Some people's time is not that important.  The need is only limited to shelter, (food/water) and healthcare.  I never mentioned education or refugee camps (which often live in tents).  

And students dont do that travel to teach them they need a car.  Many would prefer a car.  Its just that some will link this preference to the hours near minimal wage they would need to do in order to afford it.So stuffed olive, what are your car driving figures related to wealth?  What do you know that Treasury dosnt?

Your lack of knowledge about farms (many are mutli millionaires and live on very productive estate) further diminishes your point.  

The research demonstrates that the more you earn, the more likely you are to drive.  Considering people that choose not to use as much of the roads need to pay for this enormous expense and the worst culprits are the richest, what exactly is your problem with an idea to maintain instead of diminish a progressive and environmentally friendly tax?John, I am extremely well traveled and have worked with countless farmers.  The property values are enormous and the machinery they afford is around the price of a royce.  

The information I was referring to is the information Joe Hockey used.  It is the information revealed by treasury that was put on the ABC and I suspect its even on the Treasury website.  

Since posters on the ABC think they know more, its time to show that information.  Where is it from?  Considering the very poorest couldnt even afford a car to start with, its not about them.  Lower to middle income earners who want to drive their family everywhere, perhaps.  Even then, the children can and chould learn to use public transport eventually.  Its not necessary for most to drive their children to school, even in country areas where school buses still exist.RosBardon, none of this says the richest drive less.  The love for cars has blinded people.  

A rich person could choose to move into their own apartment or house with a view further away.  They could afford to get rid of any lodgers, they could afford to drive to more places than spend a bit longer on public transport.  

No where did Jericho even attempt to show fuel use related to wealth.When you are living nearly 200km from Melbourne to get there for work

MOVE.  The drive is incredibly long.  Its your choice to live where you are.  The house may be cheaper.  The time and fuel costs will not be.  

Considering its a tad over two hours, arriving back at 7:30pm if you finish at 5pm is quite good for public transport.  It may take 15 minutes longer in total if you dont speed.  

As for getting to Melbourne, leaving at 6am by train to arrive a bit after 8am is not ideal.  Still, you would need to be leaving close to 6:30 by car anyway due to rush hour.  

If this is the "rural" people we should be protecting by avoiding keeping a tax at level, I have no real concern.  Moving is necessary in life.  Having others pay for your lifestyle is not.lol, there are alternatives.  Most people just have the means and ego to avoid them.What is overkill about ten years for assault that puts a life on the line?
Overkill is the action of assault.  
Its revealing that the article refers to the attack as a "king hit".  There is nothing king about it.  Its a mongrel act renamed as a "coward punch".  No one should speak highly of it.  

Perhaps someone can give a scenario where a punch without initial violent action that is unforseen by the victim deserves less than ten years.So in other words if you are on drugs and harm people you deserve less?

Any reasonable person would know drugs harms their ability to think in the first place.  I hate the idea that being on drugs can be a mitigating factors.  It dosnt mitigate the harm you cause to others.  Being drunk and speeding dosnt lessen the speeding offense.  You get an extra penalty for being so stupid in the first place.  

The same should apply to assault.So Alex, you tell a story of you being drunk and deciding to take "justice" into your own hands by assaulting someone who has either served their time or not (perhaps yet) found guilty and by causing this death ahead or beyond the justice system you expect less than ten years?  If you cant stop yourself from acting so angrily by hearing things you dont like, I would want you in jail.  

As for who Dave, the act of self defense which includes defending another from current or impending danger would not fit the definition at all.  A coward punch is about an unprovoked attack without an intent to defend anyone from danger.  Your situation does not fit.So what does a British political party have to do with Australia?  Voters are in danger if they dont even know what hemisphere they are voting in.It is on a government funded media organization where the majority of staff are left winged and there are no conservative hosts.  
My prediction for the ABC is that after two elections without comedy teams on the ABC they will reintroduce them as the Liberals have been in power.  

If the ABC is to be fair by renaming, its time to rename the Greens/ALP union to Socialists.  A political party and ideology that many comparisons can be drawn with.Try searching for Tory.  If you cant work out what the term means, dont use it.In the same sense we where governed by a socialist party last electoral cycle, you are correct.  
We dont have any party in parliament called torries or socialists.  Yet comparison with other parties policies can be made with both.  

Strange that the term socialists referring to ALP/Greens has never been printed in an ABC article.  The ABC's bias justifies its restructure ASAP.Any objections to the ALP being called socialists, tea sippers, union hacks, tree huggers, censors, business vandals or economic illiterates?

Fairness on the ABC would be allowing articles to be published that use alternative words for every party or none.  What is the ABC editor going to do?  At the moment I have as much faith in them as the Sydney Morning Herald's editor that let a heavily biased and incorrect article against Israel be published next to a picture of a Jew blowing stuff up.  
Well you know the bias of the author automatically with this article just by the title.  
No one else refers to the Liberals, Nationals or Coalition as the Tories other than its critics.  

I wonder how the ABC would feel about renaming the ALP/Greens to the cave dwellers or something else?
Its no more than an attempt to draw comparisons between foreign parties Australia may not like.  In that sense, perhaps the inaccurate comparison is best compared to Socialists for ALP/Greens.  

Its time for the ABC to stop flaunting its bias.  Bidget cuts are deserved when it does.There needs to be a special charge for contaminating the results of an election.  This is not on the same level as criminal bribery that merely contradicts the intent of a law.  Bribing a politician or political candidate contradicts the intent of the Australian constitution.  

The fact that the person who took the bribe and admitted to receiving the bribe are not in jail is horrid.  The same goes for past detected ALP corruption.  The end punishment for bribing an official should be close to murder.  A few years is simply not good enough.There was never an accusation of guilty by otherJohn.  
It is true to say Gillard was under investigation when running for office.  

The question is would all political candidates be afforded that same courtesy?
There is bias when Rudds threat to burn the OECD is not criticized but Abbotts threat to assault one member is.  

There is bias when only people in favor of boat arrivals get published.  

There is bias when former ALP staffers and members fill the ABC payrollMadmax, $90 Billion is an underestimate if you consider costs per % installed.The medical community was told the NDIS would cover everything.  

In the non-print conditions of budgetary constraints and regulatory hurdles.  
The saddest thing about the NDIS is a half funded scheme was deemed delivered.  The ALP kept on spending money before it arrived and then questioned why the public had lost faith in them.  I approve of almost all the ideas the ALP generated in terms of social schemes.  I am shocked by the was almost all of these schemes where implemented.The ALP installed 3% at the end of their term.  So, expand that.  
If 3% takes 6 years, 100% would take 200 years.  
Even if things where picking up and it would only be 100 years, most Australians would be receiving todays equivalent of a VCR in 50+ years time.  

The installation and debt where jokes.Gillard got off easily.  Howard was accused of being a war criminal and compared to an animal on a regular basis.  
Abbott has been called a Nazi on the ABC with a question to viewers why he has not been shot. 

Gillard put herself in the role of victim and was then shocked and hurt as the dislike of her policies.  Either the ALP offered the most sheltered environment in existence or Gillard was unable to understand that in politics so many people will disagree and act dirty.  

The dirt that was flung at her can be compared to things Abbott has already experienced as PM.  The difference is Abbott is not saying this abuse is because he is a man.Barrie was staff to Hawke when he was PM.  There are a bunch of former ALP staffers on the ABC payroll.  Cant say that for the Liberal party.  

The ABC's continued one sided stance on asylum seekers, silencing of different opinions on climate change and fact check bias combined will comparisons by staff between Abbott and Nazis and questioning why Abbott has not been shot really shows its bias.  

Sadly I am forced to pay for this.  Bring on the ABC budget cuts.The IPA is much a Liberal staff as the human rights bodies and unions are ALP staff.  

The minority of former Liberals does not counteract the ABC's bias.  On the drum there is Cassidy and Mungo.  On TV there is Jones and O'Brien.  

There is a relentless bias on all forms is breathtaking.  I made a prediction that the Chasers would be back when the Liberals where once again in power.  The programming agenda is one of bias as well.  

I am not defending the stance of Abbott.  I am pointing out the bias and overall low importance it has.  Abbott would have been better off using other language like Rudd would have been better off not threatening to incinerate the OECD.  The difference in the bias in the ABC only leads to articles about one.  

All of this pales in comparison to government decisions regarding what trades are legal, the compliance procedures that need to be followed, budgetary decisions and more.And who needs bad quotes when they can be made up?

The shirtfront statement was silly yet so small.  Its better than a decision to instantly ban a trade or to get caught spying on our neighbors.  They are far more damaging.  So far on the international front, Australia has placed its feet carefully even if an occasional mouth runs off.  

Still running mouths are nothing new.  Gillard had her share of gaffes.1) Media will always find something to amuse themselves with.  Interestingly the ABC only looks at one party.  The approach by Shorten is to stay silent if he was PM.  Equally cheap jokes are made about it in different media.  From pronouncing words differently, falling down, having a picture with a misleading caption, there will always be something to amuse the media.  

As least Abbott has a plan to be heard and noticed.  

2) Opinion polls now are meaningless.  If a party is deemed competent and better than the other party it will win the election.  John Howard was never liked yet became the longest consecutive serving PM.  

Barrie lead Hawke to only winning one election for PM.  I suspect there are very different advisers behind them with different concerns about opinion polls and media distractions.Wow, so there is a call to respect someone as a person and you hate that?

Despite your stereotyping, if you are denying more women take time to care for their children due to social and biological factors, it is clear to see why you are not a CEO. 

Out of interest, do you have any concern for a lack of Indigenous people or Refugee citizens in the top roles as well?What did Gillard negotiate that was good?  Pandering to wills and implementing poor programs is not skilful in any sense.  

The only credit I can give her is that the PM before and after made her look good by comparison.Now imagine if I reversed the names and the outcry that would follow.  Sexist notions exist both ways.It is similar to the attitude Julie Bishop is taking.  Julie is one of the best performers in her role.  Gillard by comparison had major problems in every project that she implemented.  

What may be the problem is people who believe there is a system out to get them ensure they see such due to their own beliefs.  

Females are getting more places at university today, females in their single 20's are out-earning males and despite the longer life expectancy all states have a female health budget and minister.  Its not all bad.What has Gillard achieved?
Border policies showed no change as deaths climbed higher
Debt continued to grow
Legislation grew when there was no defined need for a growth in laws
Education had an unfunded policy
The NDIS was unfunded
The NBN was massively delayed and over budget.  


Most of these things where inherited from Rudd.  The problem is they where not turned around.  Gillard failed not because of calls referring to any for of ist such as sexist or being constantly shown in cartoons in bathing suits, having their belief mocked or being called a nazi on TV.  
Sorry, that was Abbott.  Much like most politicians, he ignored it.  
Gillard copped some as well.  

Gillard failed because ridiculous whines where not ignored, because there was not a clear reason for her sudden take over and most importantly because things did not improve.  As a result of things not improving, there where complains of sexism  when questioned why there was support for a speaker who sent disgusting text messages despite Gillard;s previous claims to disassociate and this was followed up by going on the Kyle and Jackie show.  

There was never any consistency or improvement.The biggest reason they should know who would follow is that Kelly publicly endorsed her successor.Arthur, boat arrival without a visa is an illegal form of arrival under Australian law.  You mention misrepresentation when that is what you are doing.  
Also holding fake documents is illegal which many do
Others destroy their documents which is illegal.  
There are also crimes committed when paying bribes or engaging criminal services such as people smuggling.  

What you may wish to argue is that the acts are morally justified.  They are certainly many breaches of law and thus illegals.  

For example the refugee convention is a legal document (not law in Australia but is in other countries).  The refugee convention is not moral when the most needy are discriminated against as others do not wish to change jobs OR confine their displays of affection to private quarters.Bobtonnor, you are in a different world.  
The boats have dramatically stopped.  Either some world leaders stopped persecution in foreign countries in which they have no direct control OR deterrent methods are working.  

The fact that deterrent methods works raises questions upon the claims of those that are deterred.  Is free food, water, healthcare and accommodation in the company of other asylum seekers more dangerous that where they came from?Comrade if we are filling limited places with non-refugees whilst many drown to jump the queues there is even more blood.  

Reading the article, the concern is that a change of occupation is an unreasonable step for physical safety.  Many who pick up whatever work they can every day would be happy for any job.  Their physical safety comes from a lack of food and medicine due to a lack of work.  

We are not saving lives by taking rich queue jumpers with dubious claims and claims which could easily be avoided.  

Comrade, check your own hands first.  They are far redder and not due to your political beliefs.Yet the ALP believes that Gillard's success was showed by record legislation passing.  
How exactly is that deregulation?

Labor is in favor of socialist ideals and pandering to public whims above all else.Helvi, every city has desalination and if the climate commission was to be believed dams would never fill again.  

With such a lack of water, why do we want more people?Comrade, they are questions the current government has answered.  You are critical of their approach yet cant better it.  

The last question by Mack especially is an indicator of whether you want open borders to all who can say the right words.Easy
1) How many people drowned in the last year of the Gillard/Rudd government?  How many have died under Abbott and when?  The drownings which where hundreds per year have stopped.  Just because the ABC wont publish these peoples names or photos does not mean they dont exist.  

2) People who may choose to change their job or actions to avoid persecution have a far greater ability of finding their own safety than a persecution based on looks/race.  
Taking a person with a higher chance of death over a person with a lower chance of death will save lives when thousands per year are taken.  

What the ALP and Greens supported is clambering over drowned bodies and spurious refugee claims without the willingness to challenge or evict.  Australia remains one of the highest per capita and total acceptors of permanent resettlement in the world.  Despite the Liberal cut, we are still saving heaps of lives.  If it was the same number the Liberals would be saving more people than the ALP.  As policy direction of assessment has changed it is far harder to tell.  The only certainty is that its cheaper.Joe, Australia has a cap of refugee places.  What you are suggestion should occur (not to sure whether through ignorance or priorities) is that the richest who have waited a shorter time and paid foreign criminals should get in over those who are poorer, waited longer and did not have the funds to pay the criminals.  

Just because someone makes it into Australia, it does not make their claim suddenly more worthy despite the assessment queue treating them as such.barsnax, Tasmania is a drain on Australia as it is.  It received more funds and has a greater political say per capita out of all the Australian states.  

Now that the left winged Tasmanians who have had minimal exposure to refugees want others to pay for them to settle into Tasmania,   Well its Tasmanias right to ask.  It dosnt mean the rest of Australia wants to accept the offer.  What most Australians want is a well run refugee program where the most needy get offered places which is what we are very close to now.  

It beats the hundreds that drowned every year, rising costs and forced hand to offer more places."worse than we treat committed rapists, murderers and paedophiles"

Hyperbole.  Stop trying to use emotion to manipulate.  I assume you also include people arrested for drink driving and others in jail for less emotive crimes.  

However, we are not teating asylum seekers worse.  They have a huge point of difference.  They can choose to leave.  No criminal can decide they no longer want to serve their jail sentence and therefor have a plane ticket back home and go away money organized for them in under a week.  

Much of the safety concerns are from asylum seekers themselves.  There is fear by many asylum seekers of others.  This is part of the reason we need to have separation of males and females.  

If you want to see bad conditions, try a UN refugee camp.  Medical supplies on an individual are for them only, there is no running water or electricity or phone calls in the tents.  

Australia offers a very high quality refugee camp in comparison to the refugees whogoesthere identified.  

We need a good system before we expand it.  

I have met refugees from a family where the farther kept on calling Austrlia "paradise" (on about 10 occasions I can still remember).  

I have met a refugee who was angry that he had to pay back student debt and said he would go back to Pakistan to avoid it.  

Some are very grateful and have true concerns.  The first still had some scars on his back 15 years after.  Others are opportunistic and no life has been saved, only money wasted.  

Our process should have an ability to reject solely due to criminal acts, lying or extreme beliefs which is actually applied.  Australia has enough home grown idiots, we dont need to import them.Emotional changes to law rarely make better practices.  
The most recent example is the instant cattle ban which harmed the reputation of all of Australia's export industries whilst offering no calculable benefit to cattle that are breed for their death.Facts wont make the shame brigade feel better.  Only a forfeit to their wills will do that.  
It will make matters for most alot worse, yet they will feel better.Limiting personal choice for the greater benefit.  
That wont work for the political process, family decisions and a lot more.  

I have a vegetarian meal about once a week.  I am not going to stop eating meet because I have seen vegeterians stop growing due to their bad diet choices.  We have canine teeth to eat meet.  Our digestive systems are suited for it.  For my own health most main meals will have some meet because I need what it offers.  

I could probably replace meat for pills to make up the lost nutrients.  I wonder what the environmental costs of that is?Ann, if the carbon tax was quite small name one carbon price which is currently larger.  

I know all of Europe was cheaper.  

Russia remains in a winning position.  It produces enough food, energy and has enough industry for itself.  

Very few countries have an economy so well rounded.  Russia can largely ride any sanction out.  It has everything it needs internally.  

Europe on the other hand will quickly care if energy prices rise.Ray, Neither was Gillard called a rat like Howard, Psychotic or disfuntional by his own party publicly like Rudd or have jokes made against them on the ABC comparing the PM to Nazi's like Abbott.  

Politics is brutal.  If Ditch the Witch is the worst instead of public insults by the own party or comparison to war criminals by the "neutral" ABC shows is performed, a politician is getting off lightly.  

When Gillard was a minister achievements include the BER which was heavily rorted, e-health which is unusable and unused by the medical community and GP superclinics that are deemed complete despite being an empty paddock.  

This was promotion worthy for some reason.  Gillard was a victim of a promotion when her role as Minister should have lead to removal from portfolios.Because you dont know what a conservative is.  Despite its attempted re-branding a conservative is in favor of free enterprise and minimal government.  

There are financial conservatives who do not play fast and loose with other peoples money (not many in politics now days and certainly not our latest PM's)
There are social conservatives who seek to stop sexually outgoing acts
And there are others as well.  

It is very easy to be a conservative and progressive.  Its just that the steps are not taken by government nearly as much and if done so by government are acted upon in a financially conservative manner where the funds are found before they are spent.  

Progressives which advocate social reform can seek a reform towards totalitarianism, communism (which in extremes is basically the same) or anything else.  Seeking a record debt is a progressive mood.  One path of progression I loathe.  

Progress can be good or bad.  Conservative approaches would at least shy away from big government involvement to impose their will upon others.  
Belief is more important than reality.  If one believes there is a glass ceiling there, they will act as if there is one and thus prove it to themselves.  

If they believe there is no glass ceiling they will knock on in the direction they wish.  

Considering the glass ceiling of today in the west where single females out earn single males combined with academic results being stronger in female fields, what figures are you using to suggest there is a glass ceiling and how where they collected.  

Most figures tend to ignore the choice of child birth and child raising.If Scott Morison listened to the government advisers under Rudd II, he would believe his border policy would not work.  

Thankfully he listened to the right people.  Now despite bad advice which Rudd ensured was public my military officers, hundreds of lives per year have not been wasted, there is the ability to make large budget cuts, the boats have greatly diminished, far less people are in Australian detention centers and there is finally an ability to take people from UN refugee camps.  

I would be very careful about listening to the academics that post on the ABC about anything.  The bias of the advice matters.So its better to talk about what to do theoretically then be the person who has achieved it?

Julie Bishop has shown by example how to be highly skilled and respected in a world that many would perceive against women.  

Meanwhile some "feminist" can moan about how she appears or attack her for rejecting the "sisterhood" (their perspective).And last week the ABC aired "jokes" comparing Abbott to a Nazi.  

Care to place in contrast insults to other politicians and say which you would prefer against you?

I think Rudd got it worse when publicly insulted by his former ministers.  Its a whole collective failure to promote someone and keep them in the position so long if the words are true.  its utter power grabbing and back stabbing if false.  Neither reflects well on anyone.So what Female do you believe should be in cabinet on the LNP side?  Which portfolio?  How do they stack up against the current person in that position?

Its easy to make crude jokes.  Its the only avenue if your attack lacks any detail and therefor substance.Well put.  Did the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd revolving ministers include one person of African dissent?  I doubt it.  I dont think that Rudd or Gillard is racist, but using the logical to attack the lack of females in cabinet for Abbott, I could do the same.The biggest problem with the feminist movement is when they are so blinded by the goal of equality different choices are not accepted.  

It is very telling that a statement along the lines of single women out-earning single men gets "fact checked" yet statements that men out-earn women which do not consider choices do not get verified at all.  

It is further telling that comparisons do not get verified nor areas that will not help the argument looked at including prison sentences, health care expenditure, like expectancy or spending patterns.  

An argument can be made that either gender is being discriminated against depending on which factors you look at.  The move should always be for equality with recognition that choices such as taking time of to give birth or raise children will likely have an impact on work performance then and into the future.The video also shows nothing about women unless there is a male comparison walking through the same areas at the same time (taking into account changes in events as well eg not right after the super bowl).  

All I can say is that if people do feel harassed when others call out to them, spare a thought for women forced under cover in public at all times, spare a thought for those that receive physical harassment instead of verbal and try to understand that all kings of things can go wrong with society and individuals which in the decaying country of America will certainly come out in odd ways.Good point.  If we can only increase pay at the rate of inflation or faster, there will eventually be a wage blow out.  

I am in favor of cutting the salary of many public servants although the true work needs to be achieved by removing those higher up completely and giving job performance criteria to the new managers that stresses results independent of politics.Lambie can always run as an independent.  Being known to take a stance on moral issues and use personal judgement is the height of criteria for independent representatives in either house.  

All Lambie needs to do is stay in the media.  Considering Lambie has been in the news every month, She has proven her capabilities there.Lambie is using the perfect time to seperate.  Her vote is still important in the Senate and this is an issue that can demonstrate her different (military) background and willingness to stand up for people that the public has sympathy for.  

Perfect issue and perfect timing.  It shows a very clear character with compassion to Australian's whether you agree with her policies or not.On the other hand, we could just sit by and let genocide happen.  
What is preferable?  

As the endless violence keeps on going on, turning a blind eye to genocide may cause the least deaths in the end.  If we cant stop the violence the best thing may be to get out of it.It all goes back to basic legal principals.  
Is it deliberate or with negligence that one harms another.  If so it should be a crime.  There is a big difference in learning in ten years time something unknown (eg bananas are harmful to fetal development) and something that is already known like drinking.  

It is also to have one drink and getting wasted with alcohol when you know or should know it will harm another.  Whilst both are harmful, extra drinks would be increasingly harmful exponentially.  

Then it is further different  if the Mother has mental or other issues that may bring into justification compulsory intensive care.  

Good luck to the courts working this case out.  Almost every single pregnant woman has nothing to fear as they try and make the best decision they can for them and their potential child.Why  are so many posters just focussing on one party on a bipartisan policy and not actually using the act to back up their position?I think Jack Sparrow puts it best
"Me I'm dishonest, and a dishonest man you can always trust to be dishonest. Honestly it's the honest ones you have to watch out for, you never can predict if they're going to do something incredibly stupid."

In politics my fear is of stupid policies, not politicians I know who fool the uninformed and support the better policies.Both Brandis and his predecessor where involved in drafting the bill.  It started back in 2010 and the section that journalists are upset about is rarely quoted in full.  

The legislation could certainly be made clearer to define what "disclosure" is.  I doubt the high court is going to take the widest interpretation of it when there is now deemed an implied right to Freedom of Speech in the constitution.Before calling it a lie, do you care to use the legislation to back up your point?  I hope Michael Bradley read it and thought the readers of the Drum where too foolish to understand the legislation thus decide against publishing it.  

An element of arrogance appears to be the kindest reason to assume why a professional would not quote a highly relevant document he refers to.  

From my limited legal knowledge of merely assessing things under certain acts, I would need a very wide interpretation of disclosure to punish a journalist who is republishing a document.  There is nothing about distributing, just disclosing."A person commits an offence if the person discloses information and the information relates to a special intelligence operation" - Section 35P

Pity a lawyer didn't quote the act.  

So the question is what is disclosure.  Is it disclosure to report on something that is already disclosed (further disclosure?) or is it disclosure to reveal something that is not known.  

Another question is what is a Special Intelligence Operation.  That is far more government defined and difficult to argue when a part has been labelled as such.  

A brief check of the definition of disclosure is "the action of making new or secret information known"

New OR secret

Does anyone have a copy of the Macquarie dictionary as that is what is used in courts.  

What is important is how the high court defines disclosure.  If something is already disclosed the courts would need to have a wide interpretation to call it re-disclosed thus disclosed again.  

Alternatively they would need to say that something publicly revealed is also secret in order for an offence to be committed.  If publicly released information is still defined as secret, (probably the most likely) then it could pose a problem for journalists.  

If journalists where to be exempt, they could reveal any NEW secret information they got their hands on to the public.  Im not too sure that is a good step to take for the lives of Australian Defence and Intelligence officials.  
Quickly?  The process started in 2010.  Which stage of it do you believe was quick?That is one part I struggle to believe.  
How much does it cost to hire an Australian?

Considering its just a few extra forms, if it costs a business over a few hundred dollars more for a 457 visa they need to get a far more efficient staff hiring procedure.Equality would be far closer if we restructured copy writing laws.  Whilst data is in far greater quantities with much greater qualities.  

The best solution is a combination of well structured tax system AND allowing the web to become rampant with freedom of information.So what should he have said?  Other than what you want to hear?
The response referred to many previous comments.  If you want to see blind support of government policies, look no further than the litany of failed programs that government has run.  That is true support for a government.That law is already changed.  Its not support of a changing of laws when it has already been implemented.  

Much like the average Q and A questioner, you should do your research before making a flawed statement.  

A debate of whether the laws should have been changed is another matter.  Still, Colvin like all within government departments when questioned in public gives support to the current laws and the current employees.  

If you are looking for people to be sacked, I am sure you would also support the military leaders who stood by the ALP and said that the turn back policy could not be implemented.  There statements have proven to be wrong and they where talking about another parties proposed laws and enactment, not their current direction.  

I personally would keep all in position instead of sacking on falsely perceived partisan lines.Barsnax, I am not using sarcasm.  

The reason why a cop is explaining these laws (that where passed by the ALP and Liberals) is that they are current laws.  They are not future laws or proposed laws.  The true position on current laws is held by the courts.  

Its a bit ironic that you are talking about separation of powers when you do not understand when laws are current or proposed.  You are very confused about what position the law is in and I question if you know how it will be enacted, let alone interpreted by the courts.  

The police have always been a spokesperson for the current law relating to the jurisdiction of their office.  Just as all other departments have spoken in favor of current laws relevant to all their departments.  You are expecting a sudden change for Colvin for solely political grounds.  

Nice for you to keep on mentioning Colvin yet not actually understand the line you are falsely claiming he crossed.  

Please, understand what the act actually says and the history of government officials supporting current law before you start calling for heads in your misplaced political game.Drink driving like the current law which does not exempt journalists from revealing secret documents is the law.  
Just as no government official questioned the NBN without a business plan, no government official will be questioning the current laws regarding ASIO documents.  Where possible they will point out factual errors that the public has which may alleviate some concerns.  The biggest problem that the left appears to have is the Brandis knew his subject very well and the questions where full of holes.Actually I remained very quite when Rudd used Defense to say the boat turn back policy would not work.  
It was worse on two areas
1) It was about a proposed policy instead of a current law or policy
2) They specifically mentioning parties.  

The current laws regarding ASIO have their origins in 2010 and where supported by both parties going through parliament.  It is far less partisan and current law/policy.  

The reason why I am posting here is the bias of the ABC and its posters is ridiculous.  The ABC needs a substantial restructure or to have its funding removed.splod1, I am not supporting the legislation.  I am defending someone who is being wrongly attacked.  

I know that anything close to support of legislation automatically classifies people in the eyes of most.  
I have not voted Liberals in the previous election ever put Liberals, ALP or Greens first because all major parties support the current entrenched system of blind population growth and attacking each other over achieving any result.  

If you cared to read (which obviously you dont) this is not a Liberal party legislation any more than it is ALP legislation.  I know it is hard for you to understand that the ALP supported something you dont like, but its true.  Try and come to terms with it.You would prefer police without weapons?  What do you expect them to do against one gang member with a gun?

Words dont always work.  Considering the incredibly small number of wrongful shootings, the police and armed forces are meeting their responsibilities.  The people they encounter have almost always failed to meet their responsibilities.The comment of being "clear" is a "Why" ???  I need to ask "How"?

If previous comments on HOW the law is to be implemented where clear and correct, it is entirely appropriate for any public servant to say so.What did the Commissioner say about any particular party?
All public servants need to work under the laws given and to promote the work of their department never say the laws are insufficient or poorly constructed in public.  ESPECIALLY if they are near the top.  

Colvin never mentioned a political party by name or alternate proposal.  He was also very careful not to use the work "Muslim" or "Islam"

A single quote where the commissioner refers to many previous comments that have not been countered.  It is very appropriate for a person in any office to mention the history of comments that keep on being said.  It is clear from many of the questioners on Q&amp;A that they had not done their research.  

Valid concerns without valid investigation.If Barns had his opinions the other way around, they would not be published on the ABC.  

That is what makes it ABC worthy.Only Abbotts laws?  Are you aware that they needed the support of another party to pass?
Are you aware that party is currently being run by Shorten?  It was being run by Rudd in the beginning of the process.  

Its strange that the foreign fighters laws have only applied to a Christian man who fought in PNG.  This foreign fighter law is being criticized for attacking Muslims when historically it has been the opposite.  

The police have many criteria to meet.  Your real problem appears to be with the police rather than the laws.  If you have evidence of racial selection in the police force, raise it.  
In the mean time do you care to show where you get that 94% figure from?  The closest I can find is a 2004 Client Satisfaction Survey for the AFP.  It is 94%

Considering the emotions that people must be going through when the police arrive, it is a very good figure.Oh how killing it is for Howard to have given the ALP money in the bank, record low unemployment, working borders, a new tax (GST), positive relations with all countries and slow but steady improvements in health and education.  

What did Abbott get?  A structural deficit from Rudd/Gillard/Rudd without any plan to address it, hundreds dying at sea every year, a very angy Indonesia due to boats, cattle ban and spying all during the ALP, rising unemployment, stalls on educational improvement and rising debt.  

Rudd was very much like Whitlam.  Gillard was just unable to counter Rudd's messes and the ALP so turned to sexism.  Nothing improved under Gillard which is a lot more than I can say for Rudd.You mean unemployment of around 3% under McMahon which ended up rising sharply from around 1973 (under ALP) to over 7% until the end of 2000?

Whiltam over doubled the unemployment rate and it took an exceptionally long time to recover.  DECADES.  

Inside Out, your comments are a plain lie.  Gough did not inherit high unemployment.  The rate was over doubled under him and took a generation to recover.Harvey, all without mentioning the biggest reason of his sacking.  The Senate was in Liberal hands and key measures where not passing.  

Whiltams government was full of conspiracy theories.  None of these crazy theories have been proven.  What is certain is that bills could not pass through the Senate.  Whitlam could not run a government without that ability.Christopher Boyce sold secrets to the Soviets and told what ever lies would further his bank account.  A basic understanding would show Boyce was for money, not morals which Snowden is.  

Conspiracy theory on conspiracy theory.  My proof for Liberals in the Senate would be found on government websites recognizing the numbers.  

Considering the rampant unemployment, frequent blocking of bills, rising interest rates and irrational national policies, the GG made the right call.  

If your hopes are on the tales of a sell out to the soviets with no credible source to verify his claims, I swear I saw a unicorn.  And I am not asking for money.First: Whitlam was dismissed as he could not pass supply or other bills through the Senate.  Despite Whitlam being in favor of a US model approach which would require bipartisan support on supply, he could not obtain bipartisan support on supply.  Without an official budget the GG had no choice but to force an election.  

Second: Very debatable.  I doubt the ABC would let a list of Whitlams failures be published.  

Third: And Whitlam's Attorney General believed ASIO had foreign plots in Yugoslav.  You would fit right into the conspiracy theories that Whitlam's government represented.  

Fourth: So many NGO groups have already tried that in Australia and countless other places.  They cant get in politicians who support their ideas.  Even  if they do get a few in that require a referendum for their support, Australia would likely reject and significant reform.  Our democracy is peaceful and bad leaders can get turfed out.
Eg Get UP has tried this with Simon Shiekh, yet as its a leftist internet mouth peace, it will never get mainstream support.  As the AEC found for GetUP (and most political NGO's) it engages in misleading and deceptive conduct.So a myth is growing.  It would be nice for an actual review of Whitlam's achievements.  I dont expect to find such a thing on the lefts ABC.  

One does not get kicked out of office by the GG and have their party smashed in the upcoming election by being deemed competent by the public.  The closest I can relate Whitlam to is Kevin Rudd. 

Fortunately Hawke and Keating remembered what the Whitlam government was like and chose to stay clear of it.  

Whitlams achievements where far and few between.  Sure, mourn the loss of a person. Lets not pretend Whitlam was anything commendable as a PM.Nice absolute of the CIA getting to everyone.  There are always interests in Australian politics.  A person who was getting close to China and referring to ministers as "Comrades" when the Soviet Union was a major power is certainly not going to be popular in America.  

A person who supports the free market and does not jump to leftist conclusions on new topics is not going to be popular on the ABC.  

There are countless groups that will express opinions.  America was understandably shocked to see sensible government being overtaken by the failed communist policies whilst acts where being taken against the Australian governments own departments on tea leaf suspicions.  

What is lacking to this day is evidence that America did anything more than diplomatic pressure.Issues include speculative investments and unoccupied properties (eg second homes being in prime real estate being vacant)

The problem with housing is it is foremost seen as an investment and there is no social obligation much less legal to endeavor to occupy accommodation where it is the shortest.  
I dont know any other "investment" where I need to live within it for basic health and social requirements.  Housing should not be seen as an investment.  

Each time the price of houses goes up, we should be condemning the inflation above all else.  It is just making ownership even harder for the youngest and poorest Australians to achieve.  Paying those with multiple properties only entrenches disadvantage if home ownership is a pipe dream.Clearly Mungo has no idea of Western Australia and even avoids mentioning it when they are raising the GST issue.   Why?

WA is a state that has held a referendum to separate which was ignored due to the political convenience of other states.  
Today there is still great anger over the instant cattle ban, concern over a future carbon price, frustration at receiving the historic lowest GST return (37c in the dollar) and more.  

Moves to a federal level will not help.  Almost all of WA's anger is directed at the federal level.  Most of that anger is at the federal ALP which panders to the majority in Melbourne and Sydney who have no idea about the thoughts and challenges of WA.  

The best example is the trial poker machine ban.  WA has only had pokies in the one casino for decades.  The trial ban is decades long and no harm has been found.  Having a trial ban near Canberra is pathetic and full of problems.  

The ignorance of the Eastern states not to realize this is astounding.  They only needed to look at any WA city other than Perth to see a ban where people could not drive to a poker machine.  

The federal government getting more powers will eventually lead to WA succeeding especially when east coast commentators cant even bring themselves to understand the issues they are raising.  
That is if we want to be democratic.  

A Scottish style referendum perhaps without the majority of the unions desired result will arise if the Federal government is to get more powers.  It is too blind already.  

The only reason USA remains together is the powers of the states.  Lets not diminish our own.  

What is needed is clearly defined responsibilities.  Not one person being given the arbitrary power to decide upon matters they know nothing about.The most totalitarian states have no population policy.  North Korea, Syria etc have none.  

China is also far too different for comparison.  A population of over 1 Billion which was growing due to births is very different than a population of under 25 Million that is growing primarily due to migration.  

We need a population policy.  Population growth is not good as it further divides limited resources.  If you want a general pattern with population, look at the largest to smallest nations and see where they rank in quality of life.  

The biggest (China and India) are not top of anything.  Following nations like America and Russia are not idea in any social either.I had a 70+ year old man today said "Good Morning" to me when I was walking to a bus stop.  I am under 30.  I didnt think he wanted to have a relationship.  Its a casual greeting.  Its polite and helps build a community through decent interactions, so does a smile. 

I smile as men and women.  99% to new people are without the intention of ever meeting them again.  

The "100+" events included hello style comments like that.  Why are they mixed in with the creepy ones?  A good basic rule is that it should be suitable for anyone or no one.  

I have no doubt that some tried to quickly build a relationship with a compliment to sell.  I had a  mid 20's charity sale girl run her hand over her cleavage.  Having done sales myself, it is a tactic that would work for her (just not that time).  

I would be interested to know where the walk was.  As certain as I am that a lot of men are as creepy as was shown on the video, I find it very hard to believe one pops up under every six minutes.  The video makers lack a lot of credibility to me unless it can be verified from people without motives to promote their group with the outcome.  

Lying does more harm than good to any cause in the long run.Brand has no real idea how his idea is to be achieved.  
The real issue appears to be he dosnt like the current outcomes.  He could always form a party and get votes of like minded individuals.  The problem is there may not be many.The outcome of a report has to be pre known for the politician to authorize it.  
Any subsequent report without a clearly defined separate scope is a waste.Why is it either or?

Why not give the businesses that set themself up on the law and are part of one of Australia;s major exports whilst suffering the least services in Australia some NOTICE.  

The ALP could have phased change, honored sales for existing cattle only and more.  

The cruelest are those in the cities that are willing to trash the income of others yet dont generate the wealth they need for their lifestyle.  
The city is dependent on the country, not the other way around.  Our major exports are rural based.  Its time for the cities to lift their weight and not prejudge on matters they know nothing.Imagine if you where fired tomorrow, had to incur thousands of dollars of debt as well AND had no nearby source of income unless you sold your property for a considerably lower price (say half)

Dont worry, its just the world changing.  No need to moan.  If you are in a city your complaints would already be processed, country they are ignored.Many areas where cattle are grown can not produce vegetables.  The water is too spread for highly intensive crop growing.  
Would you give up on your community, friends and family when your business is one of the oldest in the world due to feel good and highly questionable diet preferences? If any liberty exists, there will always be a demand for meat.Can you get a picture of a dead farmer out your head?  This even almost certainly lead to suicides.  Yet that is not going to be explained or shared as much as a abused cattle.I hear over 10% of students at school get bullied.  Due to this level of abuse and many successful court cases against school, why not instantly ban education?

It was a complete over reaction to many farmers acting very legitimately and honestly in their business.More to the point that the ALP has no chance of winning any rural electorate.  

Neither farmers or miners would vote for a party of over regulation and instant business changes.  
The public servants who get work out of it will though.Why is the ABC so keen to raise the GST?
The only quote that the ABC can find is during question time where Abbott correctly states that it is a matter for the states after the topic was raised by the ALP.  

Abbott was naive to believe a mature discussion could be had.  The topic of how the States become responsible for their own budgets and own responsibilities is a very important one.  

I agree with Stephen that the GST must be looked at.  Pity taxes on tand/house ownership, road tolls, utilities and other methods to raise taxes are being ignored.  There are many ways states could raise revenue.  None are popular.  No method of raising revenue is.  As least the government that decides upon them will be directly spending the cash.  

The current method of a federal government raising, negotiating with countless people between states, sending funds, monitoring at both levels, reviewing the agreement at both levels and then restarting,,,,,,   makes it near impossible to tell who is responsible and where the arrangement went wrong.What failed Whitlam was rampant spending, inflation, and unemployment.  

Many successes are wrongly attributed with almost every single one that he deserved later being very significantly changed or reversed.  

Sure Whitlam stood for things.  Many politicians do today.  That dosnt mean they are any good.  No matter how fawning the ABC is over a PM who due to his capabilities was thrown out of office by the Governor General.The biggest problem is with implementation of local policies.  Many grants and programs are designed in Canberra with only Sydney and Melbourne in mind.  

Whilst I want states removed, the choice of delivery is best made by the state (or even better, local) government.  Most would be decided to be performed in mass processing centers if there was a consistent law.  The challenge is getting a decent and wide representation in there.The Senate is the most representative.  If we where going to have a one level parliament I would abolish the house of representatives and throw away state lines to have a sole senate ballot.  

If a person wants to represent a region, good luck to them.  If they want to represent Australia, they may have a better chance.  There would just need to be a process of limiting the number of people putting their names on the ballot.  I am sure there are many ways with minimal cost and maximum engagement that could be arranged.So why should the Federal government that under the CONSTITUTION, should have no health department even give $1 to the states for Health?  The current balance of the Federal government raising whilst not being constitutionally responsible at all is ridiculous.  

Our most important legal document is not being followed.  It is being run over causing massive duplication, confusion and over legislation.  

I dont really care which way is goes.  What I really want is a clear division of responsibility.  The constitution provides but the public does not follow or care about it.Did they bother to say who should pay for it and how?
Or offer a better implementation method?

They would really worth be listening to.You realise that the the states need to agree right?
Its not up to Abbot.  It is up to all the states or the issue could be forced in a referendum that would probably fail as Australians are very wary of change.My first preference is removal of duplication above all.  
I could see a state government dealing with local matters and federal dealing with international.  

Either way, we certainly need the Federal more or less as is to deal with international spot fires without too much admin.  I dont trust a long admin process to decide what we should do about an approaching militia, disease or other effect.  

For state matters the best way may be to slowly empower a body comprised solely of them whilst removing their differences.  My preference would be a Council of Australian Premiers (CAP) where each state chooses a representative for a five year term to remove it from electoral cycles.  For the states to agree, the Federal government may need to fund his.  

Give this group the funds to recommend changes to law that apply to all states and make recommendations wherever it cares to investigate.  

If the majority of Premiers representing the majority of the population agree, it would become law in all states, even if some disagreed.  The states would still decide on how to deliver and could not override this law.  Over time there may be another election to get rid of state parliaments with the leader going straight into CAP.Opportunity is being raised by Abbott at the moment.  Reforming the state-federal relations/responsibilities.  

The ALP wont have a bar of a reform that is over 100 years in the making.  Former PM's such as Bob Hawke and John Howard are on record saying that the states are not functioning properly.  Yet the ALP wont even discuss a path to stop having 9 Departments of Education, 9 Departments of Health, 9 Departments of Roads, 9 Departments of Agriculture, 9 Departments of Mines etc etc etc

The ALP is very selective in its reform.  Much of Whitlam's reforms had to reversed (Free Uni) or greatly changed (Ingienous) or where part of a long running change (immigration changes).  

The last major, long term reform we had was the implementation of the GST.  Rudd and Gillard failed to create a lasting mining tax, carbon price, significantly change education, stop offshore processing etc etc.  Even ones they started and have not stopped like the NDIS are not fully funded.  

I hope reform is made.  At the moment only one party is talking very significant and needed reform.You can, which wont help you.  
Whilst I agree with your sentiment, the law is being made not by the public, but by those with the money.  The majority of Australians have downloaded movies illegally.  The law would be changed is the majority rules in this instance.Many in the US believes God acts through them.  God must want billions to be in poverty and struggle to get the basics because he cares.  Why?  Probably because what he cares for is not good.If two groups want to kill each other, stepping in the middle dosnt solve anything.  If you want a recent example, look at Iraq.Yout ask "Why not" to sending Australians into an area without an evacuation plan.  

Then you move onto volunteers.  Are you aware that volunteers do not need government approval?  Are you aware that volunteers can travel to an Ebola country by themselves using their own faculties?

If the Australian government is paying any part of it, the Australian government suddenly has responsibility as they are being employed.  

Iraq is in danger of violent incidents which require procedure to stop blood flow and remove shrapnel or bullets.  The role is not in front line combat so the chance is further reduced.  The military trains itself and has its own supplies for standard warfare injuries.  They are not trained to provide ebola treatments especially when a large problem with ebola is that the equipment is lacking.  The lacking equipment is the risk of ebola.  

Both are humanitarian crises and both are occurring far away and have a potential to impact us.  The ebola may be best through trying to create medication.  IS is not going to be reduced or stopped in Australia through medication.  There is a substantial difference between the two.  

Ebola may kill a few Australians.  There is very little reason to believe a disease that can only be spread through bodily fluids is going to be an epedemic.  Unlike diseases like aids, the person is quickly hospitalized and not likely to appear healthy enough or in the mood to have intercourse.  It is also known about and being addressed before arrival in Australia.  


Europe is handling the ebola and is within the best position to address it.  Australia should maintain an Asian focus.  Addressing Malaria, hepatitus and other diseases in our neighboring countries.  If Ebola is to spread, it is far more likely that it is due to a jump between an Asian country and our own.  General health improvements in Asia will help secure Australia from ebola, help stop other diseases from getting to Australia, build relations with our closest countries and be far more effective in terms of both dollars and time.Lol
Barrie Cassidy has always hated Howard.  I accept the general points of the article.  Its just a pity that he had to resort to another Howard bashing at the end.  If anyone was sending fear at that time it was the unions.  They where afraid of loosing business and workers where afraid of loosing conditions.  Rightly so.  It was still fear.  

Where is the counterpoint to people like Barrie Cassidy, Tony Jones, Mungo and so many others on the ABC?  
I have a fear.  Its the fear that tax payer dollars are being wasted on very lowly disguised political propaganda.  It is called the ABC.  

It they where interested in neutrality there would be an opinion article voicing support of the acts or equally attacking the ALP which has been in lock step with the Coalition on these security issues.  

If Cassidy wants to give political suggestions, I would suggest looking to someone who can keep a politician in for more than one term.  He couldn't do that for Bob Hawke.  

Of course.  Whitlam has nothing against Comrades.  So what if he is to jump in with other international leaders and turn a blind eye to a brutal regime.  

What is astounding is that even today Australian politicians dare not mention the Chinese dictatorship, violent suppression of opposition, censorship, corruption or reeducation programs that continue.Well it is in our minds.  The problem is that it is in our physical world too.  

I wont hold your breath for fact checker.  Its not politically convenient for the ABC to investigate that statement.John, your belief of expert appears to be someone agreeing with you.  
At no stage Craig claimed to have security experience.  Whilst I agree with the perspective it dosnt mean Craig has any expert knowledge at all.  Nor does it mean I do.Zing, they are sadly the lines.  

1 - Blame the victim.  Imagine if a line was taken that a wife was inevitable to be beaten due to her socializing.  It would be met with outrage
2 - All conspiracy theories have the US government in common.  In Australian politics it is always Abbott.  A lack of self responsibility or control is very ill fitting for anyone.  
3 - All part of the second.The difference to many is that killing Iraqi's and Syrians is fine as they are not Australian/Canadian/(whatever your country is).  

Lives are not equal in the eyes of most.Im far more concerned that with the ABC accept the burqa stance that the majority of the stories they placed on the Drum and majority they showed on the news did not call or display an actual burqa.  It was far more common to have the title with the word burqa associated with a picture of a hajib.  Even niqabs where far more present than the burqa.  

If the ABC cant maintain a consistent definition of a word it is campaigning should be accepted, it is hard to believe their view is well informed.  Much less when it was suddenly suitable to prevent a t-shirt which mentioned no races or cultures.  I can only predict the ABC fit if anyone started to boycott companies that made or sold burqa related attire.They also get to decide not to ever have a Muslim that believes in what they deem anti Islamic views such as banning the burqa or attacking the Islamic council for suggesting a separate legal system.  

Fortunately Muslims in Australia are far more reasonable and diverse than the ABC will ever try to demonstrate.It dosnt take anything special to use a car to kill soldiers, it takes minimal effort to get a gun and it is very easy to learn how to make a bomb especially if you are surrounded by fanatics that wish to help you.  

The age of the maker of a bomb does not impact the damage of the explosion.  What impacts the explosion can quite easily be found or created with basic university chemistry knowledge or a cheat sheet from the jihad media.Why does the issue of gender need more attention?  Is there any evidence that attention  to gender reduces gender disparity?

I agree with the article that a person should not be attacked when trying to give praise to a person that others believe should be addressed differently.  
The challenge is how to approach gender.  Making an issue of something does not mean it will be improved.  Many will resent being told what to do and how to do it and thus offer resistance.  

The word "educate" in the context of the opinion piece is still being defined as per many ABC articles.  
Educate; Lead a person to believe as I do.

The assumption that one has the right opinion on a matter that is very much personal opinion is ridiculous.  Perhaps the word that should be used is campaign.The differences are that the Liberals never use a photo of Whitlam with their logo
The Liberals referred to Whiltlams few long standing achievements.  Medicare and Indigenous land rights are the big two that remain.  

The Greens was positive sentiment from a dead person confused with their party.  They have for a long time been the dirtiest and most hypocritical party, yet this is a new low.  

The fact that no one in the Greens thought better than to question this shows how close minded to ideas outside their own party the Greens are.BJA get of your high horse.  If you are so enlightened and understanding of all matters, why are you posting rather than spending a vast fortune on a political movement?

The fact that you didnt vote again is merely throwing a tantrum.  You are not so enlightened to know better than everyone else.  

If you dont like the majority control, how about minority (excluding you) control?  If you have a better system of government other than us bowing down to people like you as dictator, feel free to suggest it.You may be correct.  Free education for the richest (current), letting Indonesia violently claim Indonesia (ignoring ISIL genocide), not caring about debt (approving Liberal open ceiling debt with reports that will be ignored), trapping Indigenous people out of care by giving very restricted land rights (now under guise of Environmental protection on land that happens to be Indigenous)

Both if elected would be kicked out of office very brutally.  
Whitlam was full of charisma and grand guestures.  If like anyone, he was like Rudd.  The poor one person that followed was left in one hell of a mess.Its scarey how many rumors must be attributed to the Whitlam great.  I give him medicare and the start of Indigenous land rights.  Most stated successes where either symbolic, not implemented in his time or overturned afterwards.  

He was lead to being dismissed by the governor general due to the state of government he lead the country into.  No one else has come to that.  The fact that he did not have the courage or reasoning to go to the election on his own terms greatly reveals the power that went to the head.  There was a very blind eye to the increasing unemployment, growing debt, lack of services and short sighted international policies.The only way the word "progressive" should be used for Greens is "progressively insane".  I agree that the Greens fight for the most change.  Change is neither good or bad.  

Gough Whitlam on paper, not practice got rid of White Australia.  
He worked with China much like any capitalist would in order to meet a market of 1/6th of the world.  
His education reforms where backtracked and thus not a real reform.  They certainly dont exist today.  

Land rights where his true success.  He granted them through government acts and they have continued.Public can work if it steers clear of politics.  Being in the UN, the politics was always going to be embedded.  

What is scary is the disguise of not being political.  At least a private organization has the guts to say what they mean.Wow, where to begin.  
Yes Australia is a leader, probably the leader in per capita emissions.  It would be interesting to take into account exports for nations.  As Australia is very sparse and exports alot of food and energy to the rest of the world, we will have higher emissions due to that.  We could export less with the potential of global emissions to increase.  The known result of putting an artificial price on commodities is a decrease in productivity thus quality of life.  This needs to be balanced against gained benefit.  No one knows exactly how to measure either.  

Yes, the majority of climate professionals believe that greenhouse gasses lead to greater tempreatutures.  Yet lets look at the global temperature anomaly graph, the highest consisted period was between 2002 and 2007.  No one has a credible theory for the recent decrease there.  
Perhaps the earth is warming.  It was much hotter in the past.  A temperature rise is not necessarily bad.  Higher tempreatures and rainfall if managed properly could lead to greater agricultural productivity thus food for the first and even third world.  

Something other than simple greenhouse gasses is responsible for the temperature rise.  It could be sun activity which is known to effect plant growth, it could be the earths tilt which is always changing.  We may be able to adapt.  

Coal is a tool that lead to the Western world being richer than the rest.  Peabody is correct to point out the historic link.  As we do not understand why temperature growth has stalled, know that increasing coal prices will result in electricity rises and do not understand the exact costs and benefits of a change in the worlds climate the alarmist views are very worrying.Both can generate negative feelings.  The difference with a burqa or niqab is that it also conceals the face.  At least if a "love it or leave it" shirt person committed a crime it would be easy to use cameras and plaster their face across the news.  

I cant say the same for the burqa or niqab.Its not solely a matter of security.  I have never seen a person wearing a burqa or niqab behind a counter.  I have never been able to read a persons emotions when they are wearing a burqa or niqab.  

It is isolating.  It is also a tool of men in foreign countries to control the females.  If the Koran was to be followed, the script that requires modest dress that mentions both woman and men would at least have the men wear equal.  Possibly more so for men as one word means chest or hair.  Now who has more hair on the face?Spacey if you are going to compare posters to members of the public, there will be no end.  There are idiots and violent people for all groups in all societies.  

The difference between an idiot wearing a burqa or not is that if they dont wear the burqa they are far easier to identify."everyone"
No, i believe we should follow Turkeys lead.  Ban the burqa in all public buildings.  Niqab as well.In a highly monitored place like parliament house that may be possible.  Wont be for all.  If you owned a shop and a bunch of people appeared in stockings, the first thought would be robbery.  
The same would apply for motorbike helmets.  

Burqas and niqabs can be just as effective.  I want private businesses to have the clear right to refuse entry to anyone who does not reveal their face and the law is the face needs to be revealed as a default.Me too.  I always say them as left.  
Indeed, when did they move to the right?  Or are the Greens becoming so unpopular even the left wants to disown them?It was a quote of Arnold Sch (i cant spell the last name)      actually.  
The politicians share the same heritage.  It was a poke at himself being careless about the context.  

The ALP have been very careful not to show the full speech or try and explain how a party which has not produced a surplus in decades, whilst promising how many times to deliver and yet offering no new ideas of how to increase revenue or cut expenditure would do it.  

I know its far from an election.  At least the Audit Commission was touted by the Liberals.  I look forward to the ALP equivalent.  Yet as they want to expand the federal government, it may need to be a "Fund raising commission"Ahh and where was the ABC's continued outrage over the cries of "demon child" by an ALP politician?
Where was the concerns over Milne referring to children as "rabble" when talking about the burqa or her comments about "racist old white men" (hate to break the news, anyone can be racist)

Although since this is about sexism, how about Abbots cabinet being referred to as "all men and one bishop" insinuating that Julie Bishop does not qualify as female?

The outrage is far more about political sides than anything else.  Whilst I dont expect better from the ABC which conveniently reproduces its political comedy teams when the Liberals return and still fails to hire a first conservative staff member to counter people like Tony Jones, it would be great to see some balance.  

ABC selective outrage continues in line with its partisan bias.  

For the record I am unhappy with all the comments.  Politicians feel it is necessary to be colorful to attract attention.  Pity the attention is not focused over what should be cut or what taxes should be raised.  That is a far more pressing issue.pink feather duster, there is no government funding in the Australian too axe.  
I suggest you look at where funding comes from.  

As for newscorps "failure to adapt to modern markets", would you care to explain why their television, movies and internet activity is a failure to adapt?

The vast difference between ABC and Newscorp is that one takes over a Billion dollars from the Australian government and is failing to show its benefits.  It has show bias particularly on refugees, hired only ALP and Greens current and former staff members, yet not Liberals.  

The ABC needs to change its structure to be different from private business and have a model which forcibly leads to neutrality if it is to continue.  As I predicted before, the chaser boys are back because a right winged government is in power, left winged artists and commedians will continue to be used to stack panels and people with obvious bias in their work such as Tony Jones and Mungo will continue to be employed.  
There is much better to waste the tax dollar on.  The ABC wastes $1 Billion more than the Australian.I know that line is exactly as the lecturer who assesses the students would want them to say.  

How a uni is designed to engage thought is extremely hard to explain.  With the political flak I saw at every university I went too, it sure wasnt an encouraging place to share your mind if it was in any way different to the leftist views.  
As a former Post Graduate student, i know the best thing is to agree with your lecturers opinions if you want top marks.  
On all essays, if I thought I understood the lecturer and aimed to copy their opinions, I got at least a credit, most distinctions and some high.  

If I thought I understood the topic and had not clue about the lecturer, I got a credit at the very best on an essay.  Thankfully there where other forms of assessments.  

If you look at a universities political parties you will find a very high portion of Green and ALP parties compared to Liberals than otherwise present in society.  

I spent time at three universities and never once got the sense that any lecturer was right winged.  perhaps it was subject.  What I learn which is more valuable than the other content they taught is how to read a person and without thought echo their opinion back at them.  The alternative is to believe exactly as they do if you want higher marks.  

Universities are very much left winged from student bodies to lecturers in my experience.  The saddest part is this political bias is subsidized by taxpayers.  Then again, so is the ABC&gt;The universities may get people to parrot back at them bias sentiments.  That is very different from believing bias sentiments.  Some however will believe.  

Sandra makes a great point, that it is very relevant to employment as well.  There are extremely few people who take an argument on merits.  In workplaces, a very relevant skill is being a "yes man/woman" to the boss.The latter sadly.So, after refusing this piece of cloth that is not used to conceal identity the concern to justify is "empowering of the splinter of the population"  What splinter is that?  Is this a same size splinter that wears the burqa and received contact articles of support on the ABC?

"holding the view with the right to decide who should stay and who should go"
The only people with the right to decide who should arrive or leave Australia are migration officials , the minister of the department and the courts.  The size in total is probably a "splinter" (I dont know how many people or what percent equal a splinter).

Jonathan Green has problems with what he considers conservative Australia.  Still just words, yet still divisive.  Perhaps the divisiveness is the difference in expectations where some believe that people should find another place to live if Australia is not their preferred.  It has nothing to do with race or religion and everything to do with respect to local customs combined with personal happiness.  

Fortunately the vast vast majority of migrants are very happy to be in Australia.  

I have seen a person wear a t-shirt saying "F*** Off Australia".  Didnt share a word with him at all.  If we are stopping shirts, I would start with all shirts with profanity.  

If we are going to try and stop wearing clothes people dont like due to concerns about racism or divisiveness, I challenge someone to explain how it is possible to support a cloth that hides the entire face (burqa) and has its history not in religion but brutal and oppressive societies with little to no female rights yet not support a shirt that has no swear words, mentions no races, conceals no facial features and like the burqa has no statistics behind anyone committing crimes in it.  

The only difference seems to be that people who wear a "love it or leave it" t-shirt claim to be Australian and this group is not seen as positively as Muslims wearing the burqa.  Both have even more members of their proclaimed respective group that couldnt be stuffed wearing the clothing.Indirectly, Alpo you are right.  In practice, migration is not a sole issue to decide the outcome of anyone in positions to determine who enters or leaves Australia.  

The reason we have the current minister, the courts and the department is due to democratic will.  Some reflects recent will.  Some reflects long term will.Considering the ALP received a very low votes in historic terms, I am not too sure it is a "splinter"
Perhaps a few did with border policies at the front of mind.  I suspect ideas of economic management, employment, government stability, education and health where all higher priorities.I would question the social cost.  
There are many factors.  Older parents are more likely to die before their child is independent.  
Children borne through IVF and other artificial procedures are more likely to be in need of such procedures or be infertile themselves.  What is the cost of that?

Google and Facebook should stick to what they do best.  Virtual things.It all sounds ridiculous to me.  
Females have a choice on when they try to get pregnant and how.  If it is the right decision or not is up to them.  Why should a company involved in the reproduction cycle.  It is a private matter and I dont mean private business matter.They already changed the rules.  The contestants got around $700 each week of the show.  
That is not something the majority of Australians will ever have.Are houses meant to be an investment?
If so, then an investment will always run the risk of being a loss.  

If houses are meant to be for life or society, then we should add disincentives for owning multiple homes.  

The block is full of rich multiple property owning contestants.  I couldnt care how sad they are about their outcome.  They are still far better off then most Australians.  They signed a contract believing they would get heaps.  It was their choice.  Increasingly Australians will not get the chance to sign a contract to take the risk to buy their own home as price growth keeps on exceeding inflation.  

I would personally challenge a politician to publicly state that they want to pass legislation to stop housing being an investment and place it back as a social good.  
We should receive more outrage from politicians when house prices exceed inflation than we do with interest rate rises.  Each time the price goes up, the future of the youngest Australians goes down.Your comment is the biggest problems with universities in Australia.  So keen to ignore different views at best, brutally attack at worst.  

Instead of using academics to try and frame a debate, you play a game of black listing those who disagree.  
Key words which instantly tile up the left include
Murdoch, Bolt, Reinhart, privatize, mining and efficiencyWhy is a solution needed?  Many asylum seeker articles have said there is no need to follow public opinion.  

Democracy relies on an informed public.  Whilst many fight to have it, an even larger percentage in Australia could not name their own federal politician, much less the state or who runs their council.Hong Kong needs to go out of its territory for its own water supplies.  
if the hyped over financial district fails, they are doomed.  Their only industry is big wigs putting management over there to throw goods and services elsewhere.  Hong Kong is not a place of creation.  It is a place of absorbing.The people smugglers are aided by Australia accepting their product.  As long as people know a criminal can get them entry to a country faster than the UN queue, people will pay to use the criminal.  

The Greens would be the people smugglers best friend.  The ALP just pretends the relationship dosnt exist whilst over 300 people drowned every year under Gillard.Gerard, Australia remains one of the highest acceptors in total and per capita of permanently settling refugees in the world.  
The ABC might like to tell stories of Italy where they give them 30 days welfare and trust they will move on elsewhere afterwards whilst deaths keep on climbing in the ocean.  If that is humane, I guess Australia can give around $1000 and a one way ferry ticket to New Zealand.  I personally see many problems with that.  

If you want to see stains, look at the countries that produce refugees or refuse to take them.  Producers are where asylum seekers are from, refusers include most Asian nations.  

The only stain is a self created one out of excitement to diminish Australia.True.  It was a ship of not so much in instant danger, but lets claim we are fleeing for out lives.  Todays asylum shoppers are no different by refusing Cambodia.tacotaco, out of sight and out of mind is the UN refugee camps.  The people there wait for far longer in far worse conditions.  
It is with all in sight and mind that no person who arrives in Australia before seeking asylum should be processed as a refugee.Graeme, the bitter and twisted ones and the ones that want to override majority opinions, funnel endless dollars to lawyers and foreign criminals and can ignore hundreds of deaths per year.  

Only a very bitter and twisted individual could support policies that will knowingly lead to mass death and still argue for this against public opinion.So if the assumption is that asylum seekers have gone elsewhere, does any of the authors care to quantify how many and where?

I can quantify the number of drownings in Australia.  
Under Howard there where 366 confirmed in a period of 10 years.  353 of these from one boat.  
36.6 deaths per year.  

Rudd had 189 drownings over three years (total first and second stint).  Greatest of 105 in a boat.  
63 deaths per year

Gillard had 925 dead in total.  Largest of 103 in a boat.  
308 deaths per year.  

So as for one year in, Abbott has had 56 deaths.  
He has already taken it back down to lower than Rudd.  

The difference in a close to a year is 252 lives saved.  I know error exists, and some deaths occurred in ALP designed offshore processing centers after arriving under the ALP.  

Around 250 LIVES SAVED PER YEAR due to current asylum processes.  

Still we could adhere to a document created in the 1950's set for a very different migration scheme which just happens to funnel hundreds of millions in the hands of Australian lawyers and hundreds of millions in the hands of international criminals.  

Perhaps I need to learn what the academic definition of "humane" is.  To me humane is not spending other peoples money whilst fueling crime and causing 250 extra deaths per year.http://artsonline.monash.edu.au/thebordercrossingobservatory/publications/australian-border-deaths-database/
Here is a reference the ABC used for factchecker.  It dosnt work well for estimates

Abbott won on 7 september 2013.  
27 September - 36 dead
9 December - 3 dead
5 deaths in custody following

That is the bear minimum.  As up to 70 people may have died on 27 September, It is very close to the 56 I stated which is the most likely number.  

I accept that the argument can be made that all boat deaths (27 September and 9 December) are a hang on from previous policies.  They still occurred.  

Howard went for around half a decade without any deaths,  I believe it will happen again if Liberal policies remain.  

It is not a lie to say Abbott has had people drown under his watch as it is well documented.  The question is whether it was a result of his policies or someone elses.  

Gillard toughened policies slightly yet could not undo the damage and inherent weakness created by Rudd.  Despite Rudd having less deaths in his watch, I place far more blame on him than Gillard.  

The problem is the media dosnt report as much on each boat drowning as they do on deaths in custody.  Why mass drownings are not worth as much as one life is best left to be explained by others.  

877 Deaths have certain names.  It is also a certainty that not all deaths where named.  Figures are up for slight debate.  The fact that ALP policies greatly increased the deaths even if you include the SievX in the Liberals remains.  
Its very hard for a non-profit to justify a sensible policy that would deprive it of funds.  Save the children need children to be saved for them to flourish.  

The politics is so extreme that the investigation underway that they advised asylum seekers to harm themselves is indeed worrying.The only thing that the article helps me believe is that university academics are not worthy of government support.  What is the point of tax payers funding academics to put a sloppy article on the ABC when countless people off the government payroll have already submitted their own bias article with the same slant of better quality?  
Do we really need to fund worse writers out of the government pocket as well?

If the ABC ever publishes an article that attempts to justify offshore detention through looking at international norms, considering the drowning, looking at those stuck in UN camps, following the money paid to criminals, approves of our current budget savings in migration, questioning self selection and its inherent elitism and sexism for refugees, analyses the problems caused by allowing asylum seekers by boat to increase or another method I will fall of my chair.  

So many options and ways to support a continuation of current policy yet the ABC wont allow one article along those lines.Exactly
Without a deliberate structure to obtain neutrality and a unique service that is not covered by commercial media the ABC will remain unjustified in my eyes.  

I note that Peppa Pig is no longer used as a defense (probably because the facts this is a foreign produced show and not reliant on Australian funding where problematic).  Still it is not Giggle and Hoot.  The ABC Director is still trying to use children as emotional hostages.  

The complaint is not about children's programing.  It is about the news coverage.  There is either deliberate confusion between the two or an inability to understand public concerns.  Both reflect badly upon the ABC and raise questions if it should continue to cover the news.Soviet style would involve shooting.  Democratic style would remove funding to a tax payer funded political organization which is what the ABC is.  If the ABC was as far right as it is left, you would be calling it propaganda.  

Propaganda is what the ABC is producing.  We can get that from commercial media so the ABC news funding has no point.I would question why there is a disproportinate number of ALP/Green members on staff
What the ABC does to ensure stories are neutral
What the ABC does to be different from commercial media.The biggest problem with any education review is the warping that it will go through after all states have had their hands on it.  
Too many public servants and politicians want their hands on education that there never will be a clear direction as all new public service managers and politicians will want to have some impact and thus everyone will place a foot to trample all over it.Hear Hear, you need to look further into the statistics.  
Unless you are comparing females and males with equal qualifications and years experience and equal ability to put in hours, there is not a comparison.  

Interestingly females in their 20's without children outearned males in their 20's without children. The ABC fact checker looked into it and criticized the comment for being selective before comparing apples with oranges to say overall there is a pay gap.  

Of course there is when one gender due to social arrangements typically puts in more hours at work whilst the other typically raises the child or children.  

As long as it is by choice, there is a deliberate decision.  Sexism would be to force this pay gap closed as males would not be earning the female wage for equal years experience or qualifications.The trouble is attributing sexism to where is exists.  If Paula is against all forms of sexism I look forward to articles about male convictions being longer than female convictions, more men being convicted than women, no mens health minister, in the 20's females without children outearning men without children etc etc.  

It is not sexism to point out that "reverse sexism" (which is actually still sexism) exists.  The sexism that stops any male entering a females profession or any female entering a males profession is sexism no matter which way it goes.  

Julia Gillard and Julia Bishop are completely different.  One is successfully delivering programs on time and budget and deputy PM and the other did not.  
Julia Gillards problems where caused by her narrow win by gaining less seats than the liberals yet getting the upper house votes through independents, the apparent stabbing in the back of Rudd, the many many problems Rudd caused, the re-reversal on a carbon price and continued policy failings including refugees, NBN expense, rising unemployment and drop in business confidence, super-clinics and e-health.  

Tony Abbot is an attack dog (note if I used dog against a female, it dosnt make it sexist does it?).  He attacked without mercy.  Its politics.  Its a blood sport.  You cant tell me that Rudd who was slamed by his own party, Howard who was publicly called a war criminal and so on are not also victims of character assassination from being in the seat of PM.  

None of it was a matter of gender.  It was largely due to being on the other sides of politics and partly due to job performance.Alias, it is A track record of largely politically devised meanings.

I could do the same for any politician you care to name who has been in office for several terms.  
Christine Milne has had some "gaffes" when referring to school children as "rabble" and on the question of drownings at sea "accidents happen"  
There has been praise of forgery of the ANZ causing market instability and job losses.  

Then there is reference to "older, white men in Australia" not liking a Female as PM.  Other then holding prejudice against age, ethnicity and gender the comment would be fine to say there are groups of Australians not liking a Female as PM (Being silent on the other side that really want any Female as PM.  

Selective quotes are a political tool.  Part of the same assassination against Abbot that Abbot did on Gillard and Rudd.  If you wanted to selectively look at where Abbott is not sexist you may wish to consider him marrying a female director that out-earned him, the fact that all his daughters have entered tertiary study, his constant selection as a female as chief of staff and his ridiculous maternity plans and child care support which all favor women .  

I have to say, character assassination is more fun for the blood sport of politics.  It is also more likely to be printed.The problem with the public service is not its size.  
The problems are 
1) It is almost unable to fire incompetent employees
2) The selection process is flawed as with many areas procedure is more important than result.  Eg a staff member with good managerial reviews in a position often fails to re-obtain it after it is advertized.  What private company would be foolish enough to place an add in the first place?
3) The minister does not want to hear bad news and personally selects yes men.
4) In order to avoid responsibility proceedure is followed blindly.  The process (such as recruitment) is more important than the outcome


The first problem requires a fight with the union.  A six month process instead of years long process to suggest sacking, review in an appropriate body and then sack is essential.  Bad employees need to be removed instead of retention in the permanent slush that they live in.  Removing perks such as wilderness retreats, yoga sessions and other non-scientific comcare services would also help.  

The second needs common sense.  Perhaps with better staff it would be used a bit more often.  

The third requires a strong media which we dont have.  

The fourth requires appropriate freedoms being given to people at all levels instead of blind adherence to process.Why are we so focused on the US.  
Countries I would hate to install policies of include much poorer, corrupt, violent and dysfunctional places.  

The US is not in the top ten places of where I would want to live.  It is certainly not near the bottom fifty.I think I think, big boys dont use sticks.  They use guns, bombs, tanks, drones and aircraft.  

Big boys are willing to kill.  Non-violent resistance against someone who is willing to kill and unwilling to negotiate ends the negotiations very quick.  It will just end in your least preferred result.  

Genocide is being committed in Syria and Iraq.  Australia can try a full invasion, try strategic attacks from a safe distance (what we are doing), support the genocide or  sit on the sideline and do nothing which is effectively indifference to the genocide.  

Do you have another option?  What would you prefer to do.Alpo, that is easy.  
The ALP supports bigger government, bail outs of large industries with union mates which need higher imposed taxes, the ALP ran up a record deficit, the ALP had huge financial failures on border protection, pink batts, BER, NBN, e-health and so much more.  

Who should you trust to make a profitable economy?  A group that raised unemployment and created record debt along with a huge list of failed programs
Or a group that is so far beating ALP undemployment predictions from when the ALP was in office?

Liberals are always trusted more than the ALP by small business.  As small business employs more people than medium and big combined and it the leader of innovation, it may be necessary to listen to the business voices.Giles are you saying people of other religions do not?
The biggest question is what part of the religious book are people following.  If the Muslims are listening to verses that killing one person is killing humanity and listening to verses of respect, rights and responsibilities (Muslim religion is actually very big on social responsibilities) then it should lead them to be a productive member of society

If a Christian is listening to verses about stoning people that work on the sabbath, they will become a mass murderer.  

It all depends on which part of a mythical, heavily edited and then personally reinterpreted book a person believes.Why just Women?  Surely and person should not be treated like that right?True, largely due to the symbolic hajib which is not the burqa that most are talking about banning.  

In the instance of abuse against Muslims, women are identified and therefor targeted the most.  When it comes to Jews, it would be men.  

I feel very sorry for the woman that get abused because the real concern I have is control by the men is they are wearing a  burqa or niqab (not hajib).  
It is putting further on a person who may already be abused.Why is it Islamaphobia?  How many Australians and our allies have died at the hands of terrorists?  It makes sense to fear a select group that want to harm you.  Its a fear of people willing to use violence to force their beliefs upon you.  

Part of the concern about living side by side is that there is staunch defense of burqas.  (I credit the ABC for not having a misleading title with a picture this time.  The woman appears to be wearing a niqab)
Combine this with a fear of being politically incorrect for mentioning too much Christianity in Christmas.  It is seen as a combat on religion and words like "Islamaphobia" do not help as it brings Islam/Muslims to the front.  

People are dying at the hands of fanatical Muslims and will continue to do so.  Australians have not associated forms of Christianity or Buddhism (3x Muslim population) as at war against their democracy.  WW2 was quickly separated into Nazi's (Germans), Communism (USSR) and Japs (Japanese).   The other major conflict of Vietnam was seen as Communism as well.   It wasnt so much a combat against religion as a country or government style.  Religion was just used to say that the Western government is better.  

The best tactic may be to declare these terrorists a name that reflects the system of government that support.  Its not quite communists as that was more an idea of financial system and it has been too long to try that label.  

If a new word needs to be made up, so be it.  The conflict is not really against a religion but against people who want to force others to their beliefs.  

Perhaps "conformists" is a good approach where any group that wants to forcibly make people believe what they believe gets labelled.  In contrast you do not have a different religion but individuality.  Any expression of individuality that does not belittle or oppress others should be welcomed.  That includes saying positive religious messages as you wish, preventing any form of oppression and welcoming people who are willing to cooperatively support another persons choice.  

As part of this conflict an acceptance of different religions and people as not to conform to the one Australian way would be part of it.You mean the man who lead foreign students and foreign workers to reach all time highs within Australia?  The man who built a refugee program where there was faith in the selection process and a record number in peace time where accepted?

John Howard went towards a very multicultural society in both jargon and acts.  

If you want to see where racism started, try the White Australia Policy as created by the Australian Labor Party as well as the policies of second/non class citizens of Aboriginals which where largely formed by the oldest living political party, the Australian Labor Party.  

It was never the dead of one person for Australia to have racism.  It was the dead of decisions taking over a great deal of time.  The failure to recongnize the Indigenous Australians and the failure to accept foreign migrants are both historic ALP policies.It always takes longer to fix than wreck.

Although for this, what is not mentions is the ABS's high autonomy, or a reflection from an actual statistician.  

I doubt a business reporter has the background to properly delve into the information.  This error is probably due to poor management decisions from within the ABS.Pity
No law was broken and the add was effective.  I hope the billboard owner offers a whole refund.  

Well done to the group that created the add.  Terrific work.  People are troubled and these people are not able to give a practical solution to their troubles so claim they are offended.  

What I am offended by is shallow thinking individuals who do not see the consequence of their actions.  The moral decision of whether it is justified or not is another matter.  Those that are offended are in dispute with their morals.The statement is very true.  Horses past their used by date like every other working animal arnt treated the best.  
The horse racing industry has still done wonders for horses.  After all, many would not exist if not for the horse racing industry.  

1% of he revenue is not very much to care about horses.  I would still prefer this 1% to be sent to a homeless orgnaisation or this 1% is given as a pay rise to the lowest waged staff associated with the industry.  

The billboard taps into emotion and makes a connection with what happens.  My hope is that people will see further and start to question where business profits should go and what their responsibilities are.  At least taking care of old horses (by having to have fields that would remove feed from other non-native and native animals and thus reducing their populations/killing them) would be a narrow viewed attempt at reversing the damage of blind profiteering.  

ps, can we have horse burgers?  I would welcome the chance to see what a champion horse tastes like.  If its going to die, why not recycle the nutrients within it.That is certainly done.  My problem is the meat is not for sale.  At least dog food it.  

Horse meat did not do Europe any harm.  A few wild horses in the diet of Australians with Camels and Rabbits and Foxes and we may have both very cheap meat and help the local environment.  

I just walked back from work in a city and saw around 50 rabbits.  Let someone set up a trap and sell them.Certainly Todd
All natural as well.  

The real question is when, how and in what amount chemicals react.  That is what lets you hear voices whether they travel through the air to your ears or come from your own thoughts.Turkey has a conflict at its doors.  At the same time I doubt its people want to waste its military on an area in endless civil war.  
Turkey did not cause the problems in Iraq or Syria.  The international community should not simply expect them to solve it.What WW3
Both Russia and China plus most of Africa, South America and Asia couldnt give a dam one way or another.  

Lives are cheap.  When ISIS tries to overtake a rich, established and democratic country in any way, then there will be hell to pay.  

We are so far from WW3 it is ridiculous.  Food is in ready supply, utilities arnt on sever restrictions, no one is being drafted and budget priorities are not defense.  
Please anyone who thinks we are close to WW3, learn some history.Then why are you on the opinions section?
Kind of goes against just looking for the truth.A huge mistake was made.  The problem is what can be done now.  

Perhaps as a concession,the age can offer the victim a lucrative job in fact checking based from within their own home.  The Age obviously needs some help in this and they employment may help ease the restricted life he now has.We recently had an openly atheist PM, we have a Muslim in parliament and the Greens are very ready to belittle the Christian (not so much other) faith.  

What mix up are you after?  Considering Muslims make up about 2%, there would be three seats at most for them in the House of Reps.  They currently have 1.  

About half are some form of Christian and close to half have no religion or specified religion.  

There are more Buddhists than Christians, yet there is not a Buddhist in parliament.  This is the true unrepresented religion.  

Yet as No religion makes a quarter and 9.4% (more than all religious non-Christians combined) didnt say, who knows how to represent this group.  

*according to census 2011.Barsnax, based on what?  
Its not having a former athiest PM, the Greens berating Christianity or more.  

What are you basing it on.I know some Australians are trying to silence others and other Australians want a debate, others want a ban at some points and others want a complete ban.  

The difference is that on the ABC, only one of them will be releasing opinion articles.Parliament House is one of the highest government offices in the land.  It carries out essential functions and there needs to be safety of those that carry out those functions.  

If you would open your house to a group of unknown people who are concealing their face in stockings to peacefully wander about and leave without causing a problem, I would challenge you to make it a public event.  

Im not game and dont expect the politicians or their staff to be at their workplace either.You think that many people wear a burqa in Australia?

If your solution to possible violence is female invisibility, I will aim for another choice.  
Why not let the face be seen along with a black eye?

And dont relate a visibly upsetting lycra man to a person with a concealed face.  At least you can identify it is the PM or anyone else.  Try identifying who stole your merchnidise in the scenario you just explained, or whether someone is using the correct ID, or if they are smiling or frowning at your service.  

The biggest reason to ban the burqa is that it limits social interaction.  It effectively makes the woman invisible.  That is not a place anyone belongs.Dove I could say hello, yet I couldnt share a smile, see if they where happy or sad or any other emotion.  

If there where two in the same color, unless I track one, I couldnt tell who is who.If I hate anyone in this area it is the hypocritical men who think it is alright to pressure women into wearing an outfit that limits their ability to interact.  The outfit is not one of practicality, it is one of political control.  
Whilst some may choose to wear a burqa, the risk of people being controlled in one is too great and it breeds an environment of isolation thus extremism.The most times I have heard someone say "its not Australian" is to mock those who I am told say "its not Australian"

If you want to know what countries "its not" to wear the burqa, I would take a look at Turkey (leading example of Muslim democracy), Syria (leading example of Muslim anarchy)
France and Belgium, two relatively peaceful and prosperous European countries who faced riots including many stupid "Muslims".  
Tusnia, Spain, Germany, Italy, Russia and the Netherlands as well.  

So wearing the Burqa is not Australian.  It just is not Turkish/Syrian/French/Belgium/Tusnian/Spanish/German/Italian/Russian or Netherlandish

None of those countries have been shames in world affairs due to their decision, nor have they become suddenly better or worse.  

As Turkey is a leading Muslim democracy with a 99% Muslim population, its not against the Islamic faith to ban the burqa.  Its against the wills of those that wish to use religion as an excuse.  Many Muslim and non-Muslim countries have banned it to help prevent extremism which is largely caused by social isolation.  Now at least a smile can potentially be shared between individuals in any of those countries.  
In Australia that is not always the case.A person with a visible face a mohawk can easily be found later.  A person who shows no facial features is not easy to identify.  

The hajib is not the issue (which so many are confused about), it is the facial coverings.  A hajib like a mohawk is personal choice and allows direct facial interaction.  I find the hajib far more appealing.  The burqa still remains as a tool of isolation.Can the ABC please correct the photo.  Considering the title mentions burqa, try using the correct word to describe what is in the photos.  For definitions, the ABC could look at its own fact checker.  For background, I wouldnt recommend the fact checker though.  

We have yet another opinion article against the burqa, and like asylum seekers I dont expect a counter balance article anytime soon.  

Perhaps Geoffrey is happy for us to get use to seeing women without faces.  I still remain concerned when Muslim nations see fit to ban on social and security grounds.  

Its nothing to do with racism and everything to do with engagement.  Unlike the photo would falsely lead many to believe, this is not about banning the hajib (which is most common) and I have never heard a politician mention that word, let alone abaya, chandor or dupatta which all allow a full view of the face.  

For reference, the woman who is wearing standard glasses are appears to wearing something closest to the niqab as her mouth is hidden yet eyes are visible.  The burqa would not allow sight of the eyes.  

Can the ABC please make sure its opinion article actually properly reference the clothing instead of letting the definitions and examples of clothing fall by the wayside.  We have a misleading title to the photo.  The misrepresentations of pictures are doing more to harm the clarity of debate than fact checker is doing to fix it.Dove which "the law" are you referring to?

If you are referring to anyway that police or security can ask for ID, that is governed by state laws and as such there is no "the law"
If you are referring to a federal law, could you please state it.So you are not talking about "the law" rather specific laws to specific states.  

If it is just police, it dose not go far enough.  I would welcome the ability for individual private places and stores to require visible faces.How much control do you expect Abbott to have?  
If you think he is responsible for a bashing by thugs, then Gillard and Rudd must be supportive of people smugglers and drownings of refugees.  

Fools will be fools.  The question is how government policy can be changed to benefit all.  The appearance of everyones face is far more inviting and helpful to a connected society than a burqa which was created by oppressive societies on the assumption that a bit of female flesh will lead to sex.  

Controlling of women and insulting to any decent man whilst delivering power to a the male in the house hold prevents the female from being able to connect with those outside.  

I doubt many females wear a burqa by choice and not hold fundamentalist views.  The isolation will not help dissolve those views.  Supporters are allowing the development of extremists in Australia and overseas.Prozak, Wow, so you support off topic remarks, labeling a whole group as violent and racist and still support a policy known to have caused hundreds of drownings per year.  

I dont know about the left
But how is your hypocrisy, generalization, racism and pro drowning and death stances going for you?

ps, I am mainly against your hypocrisy.

Schenids, do gooders are disliked due to government intervention in lives and the often unintended and even more devastating impact of their polices.  

An example is that removing offshore detention lead to a continuous increase in drownings (read deaths) per year for no extra refugee intake.  

That is not a kind thing to do even if the heart is in the right place.  The problem really forms when a political party (Greens and ALP) cant admit their mistake.Rhonda how many do you think need to be evacuated?
What air rescue capacity do you think Australia has?
Do you really believe this will help the situation by giving air rides to refugees thus helping open a place for militants to enter?
Why do you see only one side as problematic?  Turkey has long considered several of the armed Kurdish groups to be terrorists and there are still elements in the Iraqi government that ruled under Suddam's brutal dictatorship.

A simplistic solution of flying people out is impractical in any meaningful numerical way, problematic as violent people will be taken as well, difficult to achieve for Australian soldiers who would be risking their lives in a way they are not currently, costly for the long term settlement procedures and potentially helpful to ISIS as opposition is cleared in order for them to establish a state and seize more assets.  

I wonder where your compassion will be from the sufferers of budget cuts, the dead Australians, the victims of violent terrorists bought home, the extremely difficult settlement period that a huge wave of new migrants would face and the future victims of an ISIS state that your evacuation would help create.Yeah its just a genocidal group.  Why try and stop them?  At least the 1 second baked notion of country scale evacuation had a concern over the immediate victims.  

There is no good solution.  At least the bombings and arms drops may help fragment and counter the numerous armed forces.  Not a long term solution, yet none is.  

Keeping Iraq seems to have be a mistake.What about the countries mistrust of health professionals?  Witchcraft is still in use.  

What is needed arnt so much professionals but enough resources so that hospitals have things like antibiotics
So that healthcare is more than simply removing bodies
That water is not a major cause of death.  

Liberia is suffering from many things.  We lack any compassion about the major cause of death in Africa (water borne disease) yet as soon as we think we may catch is we show some concern.  

Fortunately the health professionals know that the risk of spread in the first world in unlikely due to high health and cleanliness standards.True leaners are those who come into companies/organizations on inflated salaries or who maintain a job without any real productive output.  

The list is long.  It includes so many CEO's earning millions, politicians after their retirement on the best golden handshake in the world, countless paper pushers especially in the public service and more.  

The lifters are the people that normally on low wages actually get the utilities running, deliver people the stuff they order and actually make it.  

Some deserve big pay packets and even fewer huge.  The biggest lifters are those that create something new, not write about it endlessly or take more than their managerial advantage is worth.  

The challenge is taxing the leaners properly.  The other group of leaners (those on welfare) require chicken feed compared to what the elite leaners take.About a sixth of the world is ruled by China.  Many areas would break of if given the chance.  The political stability of China is a world issue.  If not reporting on China, its not worth reporting on any foreign news.An international scene was made.  There is now some room and time for the Chinese government to consider a small appeasement step.  
If that dosnt occur, the next protest will be bigger and longer.A big reason Palestinians flee to Israel is because Israel is a peaceful democracy.  
A big reason why Israel invades Palestine is because they do not have faith in the Palestinian dictatorship.  

It is exceptionally rare for two democracies to fight each other.  Two dictatorships is much more likely.  If you are after world peace, democracy is a great way of getting there.  

If not for a peaceful referendum in Scotland, it would have likely erupted into conflict along the lines of an Irish civil war.  Trust in a proper vote is a very pacifying force.Katter corrected it himself of the spot Pom.  It is an old comment.  Some cling to past hatreds, especially if it is for political reasons.Imagine if the gay community was ridiculed as "adorable".  Its simply a code for stupid.  Bob Katter is uncouth, I doubt he is "adorable".  He is having a large enough impact on the community to have intelligence in some areas.  The adorable people are the ones that believe by berating comments said over half a decade ago that they are improving a situation for anybody.     

Are people denying he has been confronted primarily by farmers and rural community people with rural concerns?  Or do people believe every LGTB person will actively research a politicians history before contacting them.  
Every politician plays to those that vote for them and make many assumptions based on those that contact them.  

There is still a connection to words said how many years ago?  I hope Bob Katter's remarks dont make the "whole community to fall apart".  Considering stupid things will always be said, like Bob Katters joke about woman in the same episode and far worse communicated on so many topics in bars every day, the LGTB community may need to make jokes back.  I hope the female community dosnt fall apart either.  I trust both have the ability to consider stupid comments as stupid comments.  The real question is how long to dwell upon them.  

Considering Minto Felix cares not to mention the last harmful remark to the homosexual remark to the homosexual community, or even how many in the homosexual community would care about what one outback politician says, it really is a question of how worthy old remarks by a guy who insults next to everything is.  

Bob Katter and so many in areas all over the world will keep on making stupid comments on every topic under the sun.  Lets at least forget comments instead of endlessly dwelling on them.  Are the people who hold homophobic, sexist or other stupid views on many areas worthy of remembering?  I would prefer to remember those that actively help others and praise their actions of that.Josh has never been one for respect.  Imagine if Bob Katter called him "adorable" and the outrage that would follow.  
Surely Josh meant it as a joke, like Katter meant his comment about women as a joke in the program.  The different between the two who are staunch in their beliefs is that one is not hypocritical.A challenge for any academic is to mention an internal threat like the nazis (godwins law) or imperial japan that was successfully stopped early.  

Its not a good thing to let a violent group get established.  

Another challenge is determining a foreign threat before it becomes a serious foreign threat.

It all comes down to whether we should try nipping something in the bud now or trying to kill the whole weed later.  Its very easy for an armchair critic in a comfortable position to judge what we should/should not do.  Its much harder to be a person on a front line or being in a position where we need to decide.  

Currently the Liberals have a policy that has stopped hundreds of people from drowning and are with the ALP on aerial bombings in the hope Iraqi's will do the rest.  
The ALP still cant face that its policies on boat arrivals lead to over a thousand dead in the oceans, a budget blow out in migration and a loss of confidence in the migration program.  They are with the Liberals on aerial bombings.  
The Greens want to do nothing when a genocide is occurring and put policies in place which will encourage even more boat arrivals and thus cause many more thousands of deaths.  

Another hard question with no easy solution is what should Australia do when a foreign people are facing genocide?  Should we just sit back and try nothing?  If not, then what?The verse than mentions moderate dressing uses the word chest/hair and mentions both men and women.  

If the burqa was not sexist, men would be covering their face too.  

The problem is that a garment is used to limit social interaction for the idea of virtue.  Yet the verse is not gender specific and the men keep their face visible and thus allow social interaction.  

If there is any pressure for social isolation, it is horrible.  

Then add security issues.  

The fact is we are not free to wear what we want where we want.  I am not free to wear a motorbike helmet into a bank or store.  A Burqa should not be an exemption due to religion.Jane, the information is out there.  There is as best a interpreted religious meaning from a verse that does not mention any facial coverings, rather just the chest or hair as the word used could mean either.  

As it is not gender specific, it is a sign of Middle Eastern sexism that only women cover their face.  

Before labeling others, try informing yourself.  Think about the oppression that a concealed face in public brings.  The lack of ability to gain employment as a customer cant see the face, the lesser ability to explain your situation in person because facial expressions by the server can not be read, the obscured vision limiting stimulus etc etc.  

Since you are so keen to see this as racism I wonder if you believe Turkey is racist against Muslims.  As a 99% Muslim country that has banned the burqa and niqab, I doubt they saw it as an act against a religion.  
It was an act in favor of woman and their social lives as well as security.Firstly, well done for the ABC for showing a picture of a burqa wearing person (assuming woman) for the first time when a burqa story is mentioned.  It seemed to hit on moderator sensitivities when I commented on it on previous articles.  

As for Mungo, he still cant get over his ALP love affair.  
If you want bias, perhaps a mother of a senior minister becoming Governor General is worthy.  The GG like the Speaker needs to be seen as neutral.  Unlike the speaker, the GG was never previously plucked from party lines or family of senior officials.  Fortunately the GG never needed to do anything serious.  It is expected for the speaker to chuck people out.  

The article is just one rant to another.Pinky, as a person with a science degree who has worked for government, I am not too sure what a science minister is meant to achieve.  

Their is science in all areas.  There is physics in satellites used by defence, biology in agriculture, chemistry in many trade items, ecology in border protection etc etc

Having a single minister for science is a title with no impact.  As the parliament only has one qualified scientist (a geologist who does not believe in climate change), I am not sure you would was the scientist as science minister.AGB, Gillard spent a lot of time trying to clean up Rudd mess.  
Whilst Gillard was not competent, Rudd was damaging.

1,000+ drowings caused by Rudds border policy decisions
Pink Batts delivered under Rudd
Carbon price - Confused under Rudd
Mining tax - a tax that increased debt designed by Rudd

There was also grocery watch, fuel watch, NBN price tag and more.  

The biggest problem Gillard faced was that Gillard succeeded Rudd.Lets look at portfolios of Gillard and Bishop before being PM

Gillard - Health and Education
e-health: Failed in all areas except recruitment in the end.  Cost $20,000 per person for something medically unusable.  
ber: Due to rapid deployment, state schools where ripped off.  State and Federal failings allowed it to continue.
Superclinics - Considered complete without buildings, no determinable health improvement from different structures under completed ones

Bishop - Foreign Affairs
Indonesia: After spying revelations (performed under ALP) stopped communication, it has been rebuilt.
FTA's: Agree with them or not, FTA's have been signed with numerous countries under Bishops short time.

Gillard played with higher stakes.  I dont think Gillard was ever a successful minister.  Bishop however has reached goals and faced challenges outside of her own making.So Torney has listed what the ABC has delivered.  What Torney hasnt done is explain why it is good value for dollar or how it is structured to meet its charter.  

Simply saying something was done does not mean it is to the benefit of the public.  I know people are employed at the ABC, that still dosnt justify the government spending money on it as opposed to other areas.  

If the ABC cant state how it is different from commercial media and constantly prove how it is meeting its charter, there is a serious question of whether it should exist at all.  

The title itself (our ABC) is divisive.  Not all attribute a personal connection to the ABC because the ABC does not report for all or structure itself in a way where it tries to meet differing views (eg boat arrivals, not-gonski, climate change etc etc)He is confused, yet his point remains.  Whilst you may not be around children, as soldiers have been warned not to wear their uniforms as they may be targeted isnt it the same thing?

People who are trying to wear a burqa (most are just wearing a hajib) are showing that they give greater support to Muslim Women than Australian Soldiers.  

Perhaps it is justified.  That is a matter of opinion.  The different support is still clear.Sorry Rock and Tory Boy
You are both correct.  A cadet is between the ages of 13 and 18.  And they have indeed been warned not to wear their uniform.  

Its sad that their peers who may be working in other roles (eg McDonalds) have the safety to wear their uniform in public whilst our cadets have been warned not too.  

Thanks, I thought cadets where the first stage of adults in the army.The loony ones are the people that dress up in a hajib to fight criticisms of the burqa.  

Next time you think a football team (say Carlton) is being ripped of by the ref, show your support by dressing as a Kanagroos fan and yelling support for Carlton.  

If that sounds odd, that is what the #wish campaign effectively is.TGU are you referring to the comment where she abused school children?  

I personally thought having an unknown individual in a spot that could observe but not physically interact with the leaders of Australia was a sensible decision.  

As there was an option of being identified and then entering (which all people with their faces exposed are by camera) was also available, I didnt see the issue.TP, considering the selective quotes, it is not a matter of mouthing off.  It is a matter of media shock jocks.  Its a blight on any broadcaster to be showing wrong pictures on a story (eg hajibs when talking about burqas), not mention the words following "but" and so on.  

Abbott was always clear that he did not see it as Parliaments role to control dress standards.  He was never in favor of banning any piece of cloth and therefor could not have been said to backdown.  

The foot in mouth are the opinion pieces that either deliberately or accidentally avoid the significant parts of his statement, twist it to include a larger group (most Muslims never wear a burqa) or do not know what the words mean.That point I accept.  Still, there it is discrimination to give special treatment.  If any private place or the government (which manages public places) wants the individuals face to be identified by camera, it should be required.  

People wearing a burqa or niqab are just as likely to commit a crime as anyone else.  Most will be decent citizens by their actions (even if isolated as people can not easily interact without seeing all facial expressions).  A few will commit crimes and part of crime detterence is having the ability for a camera to identify an individual by facial features and members of the police being able to spot these facial features.  

At either stage any kind of facial covering could prevent justice.  
How many have is something that I believe no jurisdiction tries to keep tabs on and even if they tried, many would have to be estimates.It is worthy to note that Turkey is a 99% Muslim country.  It is one of the leading Muslim democracies in the world.  

The group that has pushed the most enforcment of wearing the burqa was the Taliban.  

One is an extreme for removing and an example of Muslim democracy, the other is an extreme for wearing and is an example of Muslim dictatorship.  

Only as neurotic as an author who criticizes a leader yet uses their exact points in a published article.  

The entry to parliament in particular was first mentioned by Abbott.  He does not know of anyone who has sought entry and said the issue should not be overblown.  

Like all personal choice, I support it in private.  Private does not always correspond to public places, secure places or other peoples private places.lol, Bradley, the most uninformed is those that can not understand another persons opinion.  

Your dismissal of other views shows how uninformed you are.  Wish to contribute to discussions over connection with other people, history of the cloth, comparisons with other attire or what happens if a crime is committed in a park by a burqa wearing individual?Ann, other than no witness identification and most reported crimes going without conviction....  The set back of a ski-mask would further diminish the chance of successful prosecution.  

The police cant magically appear at all crime scenes in time to catch the offender.  If the public can not identify the person (wearing a mask is not identification) then it is a fantastic tool in criminals escaping the justice system.Except that not all Muslim people believe the burqa or niqab is part of the religion or should even be accepted in society.  
Which Muslim people are you referring to?True, you did not mention any attire.  From an article devoted to burqa discussion I assumed you where trying to talk about it.  

Any identified Muslim must either be wearing clothing attributed to Muslims (which includes burqa), be in a location where only Muslims go (temple/school) or come out after the event.  

The discrimination I hear is from people dressed in hajibs (not burqas).  The identification is largely clothing associated.Sunglasses can actually be worn for safety.  As for a hoodie, I completely agree.  It hides facial features.  

Sunglasses can be demanded to be taken off by police and are going to receive notice by security if worn in any retail outlet.  Yet when a person wearing a burqa is noticed by security for not showing their eyes and face (equivalent of a hoodie and sunglasses) it is deemed racist by many.  

Its not about religion.  It is about concealment.The burqa conceals face to face identification.  Should a person cause or be harmed wearing a concealment, it will make it very difficult for authorities to take action.  It is very different than any other form of attire I have seen in public and private places.  

The concealment also prevents interaction with others thus is self isolating.  I have no issue with the hajib style of head garments.  It really is no different than a hat in the key features it covers.  

The burqa and niqab are not mentioned in the Koran and have evolved in societies that have very oppressive systems against women.  The lack of social identification and thus participation that a facial concealment leads to is an issue.  

Can a cohesive society from a natural perspective exist when natural features used for identification are deliberately hidden away?  The shape of the mouth, eyes and nose as well as the countless expressions these convey is a highly important part of identification and communication which is a highly important part of building and maintaining relationships.  

It would be interesting to hold a study asking Muslim women how many non-Muslim friends they have and this being compared to number of times in public without a burqa or niqab.  I suspect there would be a strong correlation.  Whilst I have a few Muslim friends, i do not know of anyone who is friends to a burqa or niqab wearing person.  

Perhaps we should get over the fact that we dont know what a potential new friend actually looks like.  I doubt it will happen for humans in our current evolutionary state.  Too many details are conveyed through facial expressions.  

The burqa and niqab are a divide from person to person as they act as a physical barrier between out senses.  This clothing is actually a cause of divisiveness in Australia.  

Divisiveness is not just from politicians mentioning their dress preference with some supporting bans (Lambert) and some not (Abbott)
We need to consider what acts naturally lead to a connection.  Sharing a smile and looking directly at a persons eyes seems like obvious actions in forming a connection to me.Lol, if that was said to Gillard, she would probably take it as a sexist comment.  

The differences between Howard and Gillard are
One is the longest consecutive PM, the other could not face 2 elections
Despite both having policies wound back, only one policy wind backs lead to over a thousand dead
When both are abused (one referred to animals and called a war criminal, the other faced occasional sexist remarks) only one moved on.  Today one will talk about weaker parts of their administration, others will keep on referring to sexism.  

Howard achieved real and long lasting reform with the GST which almost cost him an election when he bought it to the election as a topic.No cuts have been made to education.  Its just that unfunded promises of future increases have not been guaranteed.  That does not make it a cut.  

Health has not had a net budget decrease.  

Pensions have not changed yet.  They wont be increased in line with inflation in the future.  That is a potential future cut.  

GST needs state approval to change, so it is not changed at all nor can it be.  
The ABC and SBS are getting the same treatment as almost every other funded government department.  Pity about the ABC in particular.  Its political bias deserves great cuts.  

Dont just believe the ALP lies.  With changes of leader, it will become inconsistent to say the least.What did Gillard achieve to make her worthy of the helm?  
It was a bad choice as leader when her key project, the BER involved so many public school rip offs.Julia Gillard inherited a huge mess from Rudd.
It included home insulation, border security, growing government debt and ALP instability (also e-health but that was lesser known).  
The first was finished with, the others she failed to make improvements on.  

The problems Gillard caused was the school funding which lost the support of Gonski and NDIS which Gillard never got around to funding.  

Whilst the problems she inherited more than defeat her own, complaints of sexism are a poor excuse.  

Abbott was always a political dog and would rip apart any leader of the opposite party.  ALP incompetence gave him fodder when his skills on attacking could have found scraps anyway.Alpo, Murdoch is your scape goat for everything.  
Do you care to recall what the Sydney Herald published when Howard was facing Rudd?  
They are populist.  The ABC and the Age are politically consistent.  None are balanced at any given point of time.The inquiries from Federal to State may just result in retaliation of state investigating Federal.  The difference is there are plenty more States that can go haywire and feel peeved than the other way around.If any inquiry deserves to be had, it is the 1,000+ deaths of the border protection policy AND the profiteering of people that comes from the increase in boats and therefor deaths.  

When these 1,000+ lives are not named by the national broadcaster (Reza was plastered all over), the 1,000 lives do not lead to a reconsideration of policy from refugee advocates and foreign criminal organizations are profiting whilst the worlds most vulnerable are sidelined.Incognito, you correctly use the word "us"
The ABC is bias and I would be happy to see Tony Jones go.  

The only reason why Peppa Pig is no longer used is that it was revealed the ABC pays next to nothing to show it and the decision if made by anyone is made by the BBC.  

The ABC should question why it needs ABC 1, ABC 2, ABC 3, ABC4 and ABC news.  
Whilst it can fill it with shows, what is the point?  Who is benefiting?  With that benefit that I am sure someone (hopefully outside of ABC payroll) gets, is it really value for money?Sheoakbloke the ABC ignores views by
Only ever criticizing offshore detention polices yet never criticizing the 1000+ that drowned under the ALP/Greens approach
Having no conservative commentators, yet offering work to people like Mungo and Tony Jones
Bias in fact checker (eg Females in the 20's without children do outearn males in their 20's without children)
Censorship of comments (especially with the fact checker comment above, it is very likely)

Then after all this bias, we need to question what is the point of the ABC in an increasing digital age.  Perhaps the move will eventually be to a sole government news website.  Unfortunately, new perspectives by authors is the only thing rarer than in referenced reporting.The convention has far too many problems
1) It was not updated since its creation in 1959
2) It fails to recognize those that are unable to travel thus leaving them for dead
3) It does not lead to any action (even call) over the cause of refugee production

Then Australia has its problems with its actions.  The convention never calls for any permanent resettlement.  

The perverse outcomes of encouraging people smuggling, discriminating against the poorest who can not travel, removing a countries ability to determine who enters and most importantly causing deaths for no extra created places, its time the convention was completely rewritten.  

The majority of countries are not signed up and the majority that are part of it take far less on a permanent basis then Australia.  

Why is there any confidence in a treaty designed half a century ago during a period of high emotion with different world pressures and UN politics?

The current government has only expanded a world system of UN processing.  Yet, the calls remain for a return to drownings by the hundreds and deliberately ignoring those stuck in UN camps.When was Howard ever popular?  Yet he was voted in the most consecutive times in Australian politics.  Such a change from the one term PM's that followed.  

The polls only matter come the election.  At that time it will be a comparison between an unliked current PM who has made harsh decisions that he claims are necessary and a key architect in the ALP instability who's primary of focus is or favourite areas are........

Popularity is a curse.  Rudds popularity lead to some of the worst decisions that haunted Gillard, alienated so much of his party and lead to no long lasting policies.  

A leader that dosnt make necessary decisions that are against majority public will looses alot of credibility in their competence before too long.It goes back to faith in the system.  

When Captian Ehad can claim his family is dead and live with them (and vice versa), when people like Reza whos family admit they are seeking work believe it is worth staying at Naruu for over a year and when there is a prerequisite of thousands of dollars needing to be spent on criminals (thus buying a service/outcome) its very difficult to have faith in the decision making processes.  

The appeals are part of the decision making processes and i doubt the lawyers want their cash flow to dry up.  If their real concern was lives they would seek to get people from UN camps and actually raise legal concerns about drownings, especially when we where having hundreds each year.The ABC is not representative media.  It loves to push Greens and ALP lines.If we cant reject people based on government decisions, it is open borders.  People will exploit the holes for a better life.  That includes a financially better life.  

So many one sided opinion articles appear on the ABC.  None have explained how we can stop hundreds from drowning a year, ensure application legitimacy, stop criminals getting funds and not throw those waiting in worse conditions in UN camps for even longer at the very back of the queue.  

They can and do however explain why they want more money spent and argue that Australia should not control its borders.
