Those "mobile labs" which turned out to be well known to the British government already since these were trucks for inflating artillery balloons. The British sold these to the Iraqis. The George W Bush administration cared little for truth."more than likely at the hands of eastern Ukraine's pro-Russian separatists"

Opinions may differ on that claim. The evidence that the Ukraine government ordered the shoot down is currently overwhelming. A Ukraine fighter jet tailed the flight. Air traffic control records were confiscated. The western media and politicians kept up their anti-Russian propaganda with such excess as to inspire great scepticism on any except the most gullible. Yet, we all know that the USA and NATO backed the thugs who took over Ukraine's government in a coup, supporting those same fascists who ordered the murder of over a thousand civilians. The western media seems to be only a highway for liars to shout more propaganda at people.No, the overwhelming evidence has been accumulating all over the place from many sources easily contradicting the ridiculous propaganda in the Western mainstream media. It was already obvious that the separatists lacked the capability to shoot down that aircraft, they don't have any kind of missile with the range to do it. The video released by the Ukraine government is a stupid attempt to blame the separatists was so fake with voices edited together and didn't pass the smell test as the separatists definitely can't shoot down a passenger plane at that altitude anyway. BUK missile launchers were operated in the area by the Ukraine military, and those DO have the capability. Witnesses had already reported the passenger jet was tailed by a Ukraine fighter-jet. Air traffic controllers reported the same thing, and also that the Ukraine government in Kiev gave orders confiscating all of the records.

Those separatists haven't gone around bombing civilians, the bunch of fascist thugs who took over the Kiev government earlier this year DO go around ordering the mass murder of civilians. They also beat up TV station execs, beat up journalists, and kill anyone who gets in their way.The people in Donestsk and Luhansk had far more fair elections than the fascist thugs which got into power in Kiev originally through a Western-backed coup earlier this year. Unlike the thugs in Kiev, they don't go around beating up journalists and TV station managers. They don't kidnap opposition politicians, beat them up, and torture them for days or kill them just for a differing opinion.

The Kiev thugs in power have ordered the slaughter of civilians in Eastern Ukraine, hired mercenaries to kill more people, and don't have the support of the majority.frangipani, the point was made about the people in the Eastern Ukraine and what they're doing, what their leaders are like. It has zero to do with what Stalinists in Russia did several decades ago.

The fact remains, and it's easily verified, that the Kiev pack of fascist thugs (who love to parade their very swastika-like symbol around too) were put into power by a coup. They weren't elected, and the election that came afterwards was so blatantly rigged that tens of thousands of the ballot papers had the exact same address for the illusory fake "voters". It was exposed months back that the Kiev fascists also hired snipers to shoot at both police and protestors for the goal of further instigating violence. After getting into power, some of those same fascist leaders went around to a TV station, beat up, then kidnapped the boss of the TV station, then tortured him. They've beaten up and killed journalists as well. They've ordered the mass murder of civilians in Eastern Ukraine.

Why is that when these facts are pointed out all you can do is try to dodge the whole issue by carrying on about some other nation instead? Stick the issue. The Kiev bunch are a crooks. They've proved it. Many times over.Maybe the correct term should be "honest" not diligent. If they were honest, there wouldn't be a separatist movement in the first place. Yet, those fascist thugs in suits who took control of Kiev in a coup care little for honesty, nor the murder of civilians. They cheerfully order the slaughter of innocent people in Eastern Ukraine, and won't negotiate in any kind of semblance to honesty. The media in the UK, France, Australia, and the USA continually distort the truth of events in Ukraine, encouraging the crooks in power there to continue with the mass slaughter.That AN-26 was not the same plane. Also, your claim about the Russians being responsible, despite being repeated all over the place in the western media has not been confirmed by an independent source.No, that's incorrect - the separatists have made no such claim of responsibility. The only source claiming that the separatists are to blame is the same mob of thugs who took over the government in Kiev in a coup earlier this year. They released a recording that could be anyone.

The separatists have instead DENIED any such responsibility, and pointed at the Ukraine government as being responsible.

So, who really was behind it? Not the Russians, because makes no sense. Not the separatists either, they don't get any benefit from it. The government in Kiev may have been involved, maybe not. Perhaps the Ukraine military was behind it by accident?No link, and apparently no independent source either.

Joe Bloggs, that just isn't good enough.

The Russian commander was ordering the shoot down of a Ukraine fighterjet that had invaded Russian airspace; that was hours before. The Russians did indeed shoot down that a fighterjet, but some people have sought to conflate the two things together. Adding to the confusion, Putin's presidential plane was for awhile on the same route as MH17, and on radar the two aircraft appeared the same. They look very similar. Many people wonder if the missile was fired as an attempt to shoot down Putin's plane but missed target and hit the Malaysian Airlines passenger jet instead.There are also reports in the Russian media and elsewhere that the Ukraine military shot down MH17. Objective people don't only mention one side of the story. They try to keep all the details - however conflicting - in mind, to decide for themselves.It would serve no rational purpose for the separatists to shoot down a passenger plane. They're also less likely to have the capability. We also know that the thuggish leaders who took over the Ukraine government in a coup earlier this year had hired snipers to shoot both police and protestors to instigate greater violence in the riots. They're certainly not above false flag terrorism, and they don't seem to care about killing lots of civilians either; they've done the later quite a lot already in the Eastern Ukraine. A reasonable, educated "balance of probability" is that the Ukraine government leaders ordered that plane shot down in order to blame the Russians.Yes, Zing, I see a pattern of misleading distortions of the chain of events in the western media version. Russia had over 10,000 troops already stationed in Crimea by a long stan ding treaty for decades, yet the western media reports often try to lie about that and pretend the Russian troops came later. Crimea's people voted for joining Russia in a fair, independently monitored referendum that was a quite legitimate declaration of their refusal to go along with violent coup-plotters who'd toppled the government in Kiev. I've seen absolutely no evidence of Russian military forces in either Luhansk or Donetsk, but again the same misleading distortions are promoted in the western media to be taken up by people who don't have the sense to recall the actual chain events, and can't be bothered to do any research on the real situation.I'd say the timing is very convenient for the US and Ukraine

Blaming Russia as you want to do is irrational, and not supported by the evidence of motivation, nor the old quesion "Who Benefits?"
Malaysian Airlines was trying to save money on fuel use. Most other airlines were already avoiding the war zone.JoeBloggs, there's zero evidence to support your claim that Russia forces are operating in the Ukraine.

Also, BUK missile system was already among the armaments of the Ukraine military.PM Abbott wasn't demonstrating anything more than political opportunism and the ability to jump on a bandwagon with the USA to attack whoever happens to be the enemy of the moment. Like this article's author, Abbott didn't let facts obstruct his desire to cheerlead the demonisation of whatever the chosen target of the Western establishment happens to be.

There's been no real evidence brought forward by the USA, UK, Australia, nor the thugs in Kiev, to support their allegations and insinuations against either Putin or the separatists in Donetsk. They began their anti-Russia propaganda by truckload well before anyone could possibly know outside the event what had happened. The sole source of the "evidence" of a BUK missile launcher being operated by the separatists turned out to be nothing more than social media posts from typical anonymous online sources of zero credibility, and the video that was touted as "evidence" of Russian involvement was debunked as having been made in Kiev in May earlier this year. The mish-mash of poorly edited trash released by the thugs in Kiev as "evidence" of a separatist leader and a Russian officer discussing the shoot down was exposed quickly as a fake, and had no credibility to begin with. The satellite images from Russia and the USA show that the BUK trucks were part of larger Ukraine military formations, despite the Obama administration current silliness in trying to imply that "defectors" in Ukraine uniform were working for the separatists - with zero evidence of any such thing. A Ukraine fighter jet followed the passenger plane only a few kilometres away. Ukraine military BUK launchers were in the area. Radar shows that the passenger plane was off course, ordered to a different flight path from the regular assigned route by Ukraine air traffic control. The air traffic control records were later confiscated. The Kiev regime have not released any recordings of the conversations between air traffic control and MH17 despite repeated requests.

While the author goes along with the silly bandwagon attempting to portray the separatists as blocking investigation of the crash site, the truth has already proven to be far different. Russian President Vladimir Putin had called for a ceasefire from the Kiev forces so that a full and safe international investigation can take place into what happened Flight MH17. Putin?s appeal for safe passage for investigators has been wilfully ignored by the Kiev regime, which has if anything stepped up its violence in the region since the air crash. It's a highly suspicious coincidence that the Kiev government military attacked the central train station in the city of Donetsk just before and around the same time as when the airline crash corpses were to be transported. Some rail tracks were damaged by shelling, putting transport of the human remains at risk. Contrary to the misleading distortions being screamed in the the USA-UEVAN, you're welcome to refute the facts and whatever I've stated, but resorting to an attempt to dismiss those facts as "conspiracy theories" is not the same as a refutal. Besides, I have not mentioned any "theories" at all. Only bare bones facts, that is which verifiable, already confirmed and easily checked.Alphamikefoxtrot, yes lots of words on that article, but little value considering what is not said. What isn't emphasized in the Western media repetition of the statements from Alexander Khodakovsky includes what he also spoke about. Although he admits that it is widely known that some separatist groups captured BUK launching trucks, he also states that none of these were operational. Captured junk that can't shoot a thing.

We already knew that the separatists lack the specialised training required to operate one anyway.I haven't seen any credible evidence of the Separatists having the capability of shooting down an airliner flying at high altitude. The Obama administration "evidence" is little more than their self-serving interpretations of anonymous social media posts that have zero credibility, and wild silly interpretations of some satellite imagery which doesn't show what the USA officials purport it to show. Instead, they resort to insinuations that defectors in Ukraine military uniform manned the BUK launcher system, while it's more rational to accept that those really were Ukraine military as they were part of a Ukraine military formation. The huge amounts of overwhelming evidence released by the Russian government is far more credible, confirming other more credible sources and the reports of witnesses. Why has the Kiev regime refused to release the recordings of the air traffic controllers conversations with the pilots of MH17? Why was the aircraft diverted from it's previously assigned route and flying at a lower altitude? Why were Ukraine airforce fighter-jets following so closely to the aircraft at the time of the shoot down? Why did the Ukraine military endeavour to obstruct the crash investigation and the removal of the bodies from the crash site by continuing to attack, including attacking the central train station where the bodies were being taken?There's no real evidence of looting being carried out by the local Ukrainian people. The western media has misrepresented everything that has been happening there. They edit and cut in ways intended to mislead."the statements by the Russian Federation Military Intelligence Officer who controls the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine (and subordinates) taking credit for the shooting down of the plane"

JoeBloggs, shame on you for believing such an obviously faked poorly edited mish-mash recording. I'm even surprised that somebody would think that silly fake recording had any credibility at all.The aircraft wasn't destroyed in a split second at all. The plane went down, with a wing on fire. This was caught on video. The dive took over a minute of screaming terror. The FDR boxes will likely be very useful and quite damning of whoever was behind this.The very well could be. If the cockpit voice recorder includes pilots stating the plane was hit by a missile launched from a fighter jet, or that a fighter jet was tailing them. They could also include details such as the reasons for the flight deviation, such as being ordered to fly lower by Ukraine air traffic controllers. The flight recorder can tell a great deal about the type of impact and how long it took for the plane to break up. If it was an AAM then that would damn the Ukraine military for responsibility.

Why haven't the Ukraine authorities released the records from air traffic control? What are they hiding?That's not correct. MH17 deviated to the north of assigned route of L980. Public tracking website Flightradar24 followed Flight 17 from its departure from Amsterdam through to its final moments over Ukraine. Similarly, Lt. Gen. Makushev said the Malaysia Airlines plane deviated from its course by close to 15km near Donetsk but then attempted to return to its course, crashing shortly after. Russian radars spotted the Flight 17 rapidly descending 50km away from the Russian border. The Ukraine Su-25 fighter jet was spotted closer than 3kmn from MH17, which is well within the range of the air-to-air missiles they usually carry.Abott's behaviour and rhetoric of mock outrage is nothing more than jumping on the bandwagon along with other Western government leaders regardless of the truth of the subject. It's disappointing that can't seem to make his own decisions, but had to go along on the same ride of idiotic lying and propaganda. Taking advantage of the deaths of 298 people for political gain is bad enough, but supporting a cascade of lies from the UK, USA, and the Ukraine government erodes his credibility.

Maybe you have a poor memory of the chain of events, but it wasn't Russian "aggression" in regards to Georgia, it was Georgian aggression towards South Ossettia. The Russians didn't came to the rescue of South Ossetti after the Georgians launched an attacked which killed several thousand civilians.

Recently in the Western media we see another parade of lies, trying to demonise the separatists and the Russian government without a shred of evidence to pin the blame for the shoot down of MH 17 on either. It has been apparent from the beginning that the fascists in Kiev are habitual liars who cheerfully order the slaughter of civilians who oppose them. It has also been recognised quickly that the separatists don't have the capability to shoot down a passenger jet flying at high altitude; they don't have the long range anti-aircraft missile launchers such as the BUK. The thugs in Kiev earlier on claimed that the separatists temporarily captured and operated a BUK launcher, this ridiculous lie ignoring the obvious requirement of the separatists needing specialised training for operating such a weapon which they definitely don't have. Then a video shows up on Youtube purporting to show a Russian BUK truck being driven into the area, but that got exposed as a video made back in May in a different area; the old billboards gave that away. The Ukraine government is lying, the western government leaders backing them are lying.

The truth is now made clear. Ukraine's pack of crooks in power, oligarchs and neo-nazis, who care nothing about civilian lives, were behind the shooting down of flight MH 17. A Ukraine fighter jet followed the passenger plane only a few kilometres away. 3 Ukraine BUK launchers were in the area. Radar shows that the passenger plane was off course, ordered to a different flight path from the regular assigned route by Ukraine air traffic control. The air traffic control records were later confiscated. The "evidence" which the Western media and political establishment shout about to blame Putin and the separatists is revealed as nothing by social media garbage and poorly faked youtube videos.JoeBloggs, the Russian Federation haven't been supplying BUK missile launchers to the separatists, the claim that they are is nonsensical on the face of it. There's no evidence to support the Ukraine govt claims, nor are any of those videos anything better than social media garbage. They have as little credibility as the claims by the USA and UK government officials, which also cite only more social media silliness that doesn't withstand scrutiny by any rational person.

There were BUK launcher trucks in the area; they were operated by Ukraine military personnel. Moved in with large formations.

There is video of MH 17 going down, one wing on fire, an engine having been destroyed by missile impact. This evidence of an air-to-air missile of the kind used by the Ukraine fighter jets that were seen following the plane. If it were a SA-11 missile, it would've hit the central fuselage behind the wings instead. Nevertheless, the separatists have neither any BUK launchers, nor do they have the training to operate one. To pretend that Russia would send a launcher in only to shoot down a passenger plane is a stupidly insane assertion. 

Russia has provided damning evidence of the Ukraine government being behind the shooting down of the passenger plane. The USA, UK, Ukraine response has been nothing but more "assertions" of "definitive" evidence which amounts to a big fat nothing.Your assertion that the Russian Federation has supplied any weapons at all to the separatists is baseless.

NATO hasn't caught out Russia doing a thing, it's the other way around. NATO was heavily involved in supporting the fascists who took over the Ukraine government, toppling the previously elected leadership in favour of the installing of the fascists and their oligarch buddies.

The area in which MH17 was shot down is not firmly under the control of any side. Your claim is ridiculously ignoring reality that it's war zone in which the Ukraine military move in frequently to attack civilians.

Your dismissal of verified facts as "conspiracy theories" is hilarious. It's worn out, old, cliche garbage. Try using facts, please. They're more effective.

If it were an SA-11, it would've been fired by the Ukraine military, since the separatists don't have the launcher. You've made claims that the separatists have such a launcher, but those claims are apparently from nothing more than stuff from social media sites of no value as hard solid sources. The video of the plane going down doesn't show such an impact anyway; it shows a wing on fire, an engine destroyed. That is the sort of damage expected from a heat seeking AAM launched from a Su-25 fighter jet.The USA released satellite imagery which doesn't support what the USA claims about it. Nothing there to support the claim that it was a Russian Federation BUK, and the only other evidence isn't evidence at all - it's a hodge podge of stuff loaded up online anonymously to social media sites then repeated as if true long after those videos were debunked already. The video of a BUK launcher was made in Kiev, in MAY.

The western media and western government leaders are trying very hard to distort and spin but provide no hard evidence. When separatists and other Ukraine locals were helping clear the bodies and get them ready for taking elsewhere on refrigerated vehicles, the western media edited the footage to pretend that the people were looting the bodies. When separatist soldiers guarded the area against Ukraine military attacks, the western media spun that as stopping journalists. The western media are covering up for the lies of the western governments that are backing the fascist neo-nazi thugs who took control of the Ukraine government in Kiev.

Of course there are going to be victims unaccounted for! It's a plane crash spread over an area 11km wide!It was the IDF that murdered nearly 2000 people recently, not Hamas. Bit peculiar to claim that is better behaviour.The IDF slaughters civilians with apparent impunity, using incendiaries, poison gas, artillery, DU, and missiles. They bomb schools, playgrounds, homes, hospitals. They hide behind human shields despite the continual denials from the Israeli government.

Your moral compass could be broken. You should ask for a replacement.JoeBloggs, you're in the poor habit of this constant, repetition of accusation against anyone who cites evidence which contradicts your statements, you keep accusing these other people of "conspiracy theory". It's in poor taste, the peculiar attempt to falsely conflate opposing argument and evidence as equivalent to fictions about Elvis or faked moon landings isn't helping to dispel the increasing sense that it's a game to you.

Moi hasn't pushed any "distasteful" theories at all, only cited evidence and refuted your claims. Your attempts to continually blame Russia or Putin aren't supported by any solid evidence. Obama administration officials have already been forced to admit that all they really have are social media nonsense. The Russian government at least provided solid evidence that has stood up quite well.

The regime in Kiev has still refused to provide any evidence and responded to some inconvenient questions. Why did MH-17 deviate from it's planned flight path and fly at lower altitude? Why did the Ukrainians deploy BUK anti-aircraft systems within range of the flight path of MH-17? Why was MH17 followed by a Ukrainian Su-25 fighter jet? Why has the Kiev regime continued to refuse to release the air traffic control records?Moi didn't say any "conspiracy theories" at all. I'm confused by the irrelevancy of your derogatory comment. Moi only stated facts. It's a fact that there's no evidence from the Western governments that withstands an iota of scrutiny in regards to trying to blame Putin for MH17, nor with which to blame Russia. It's public knowledge that the USA is arming the Syrian terrorists for the goal of toppling Syria's government.Your "simplest explanation" is logically the most absurd. It would rely on multiple impossibilities. Firstly, the separatists would require the extensive training to operate one, which they certainly don't have and can't obtain in such a short period. Secondly, the separatists would have to obtain a working BUK system, undamaged, and there's zero evidence that they have ever done so, therefore you must be expecting that Santa Claus gave them one, which somehow magically they can also use despite it requiring a properly trained crew.

I don't believe in magic, people being able to operate complex missile systems with zero training.

The actual simplest explanation as that Ukraine's military shot the passenger plane down. 1) MH17 was flying lower than it should've, and on a course which deviated from the routine route. 2) The only BUK systems in the area were Ukrainian military. 3) MH17 was followed by Ukrainian Su25 fighter jets. 4) The Ukrainian government leaders have already ordered the slaughter of thousands in Ukraine anyway, so more blood on their hands clearly doesn't bother them.

The only "conspiracy theory" that seems to be promoted which has zero evidence is the silly one put forward by the UK-USA-Kiev Regime that relies upon social media postings of extremely little credibility, a recording of a phone conversation which has been debunked already as a fake, a Digital Globe video and some satellite images released by a Twitter account holder in the USA government that unfortunately has altered time stamps and is so blurry that nothing can be recognised for location or timing. Oh, and a video that was being circulated around that really showed a BUK system in Ukrainian government controlled area in MAY.

If you believe that Twitter and Youtube videos are "evidence" to condemn someone by, I think you're pushing it.

You, the UK, USA, and Ukraine, have zero to support any of those ridiculous assertions that you're repeating.You seem to have a peculiar idea of what a conscript is. A person conscripted is still trained. It does not mean silly fool who doesn't know a thing about the hardware but can magically use it anyway.

Your theory about the Russia providing a single person with training is rather off the wall, same with providing one soldier, when it requires a crew of trained personnel. The BUK is not an easy system to use. Nevertheless, you're making up theories rather than citing any evidence to support them, you may as well be blabbing on about George maybe did some such or other down at the pub.

No, there is not plenty of evidence to support your allegations, you have a weird off the wall theory that isn't likely, and you don't cite any evidence to support it. Neither has the USA, UK, or the Kiev regime provided any evidence. Instead, they've cited what amounts to postings on Twitter, Youtube, and most of it put online by anonymous sources of no credibility at all.

I don't just "believe" such social media garbage is debunked, it has been debunked, very thoroughly. Nor do I see the Separatists being well armed as you're trying to claim; they're very poorly armed, they're enthusiastically defending their people in Eastern Ukraine from the aggression, but they definitely aren't well equipped. I haven't seen any solid evidence of Russia sending in troops, neither has anyone else. The lies are getting ridiculous in the USA corporate media, but I don't see why any sane person has to accept them just because the Obama administration says so.

Your strange attempt to conflate modern Russia of the 21st century with a long gone Soviet Union that collapsed over two decades ago is quite wacky. Are you missing the Cold War and so are now trying to deny that the USSR is gone already. Funny that you bring up Crimea and Georgia. I guess that you want to trot out the USA government propaganda about those two as well. Like the silly propaganda that tried to claim that Russian military forces were "invading" Crimea when they were in fact already based there by long standing treaty going back decades, and the other silly propaganda that tried to claim that the referendum by the Crimeans was rigged despite the reports of international independent observers who verified all of the votes as legitimate. Then about Georgia, you probably want to brush under the carpet that it was Georgia which attacked South Ossettia, massacring several thousand people in an invasion which was stopped days later by Russia; following the rapid defeat of the Georgian invasion force, the Western media began repeating the twisted propaganda of the Western governments that had backed Georgia, lying about the narrative of events.

Stay on track with reality, propaganda is never of much value in a debate requiring evidence.How would the Separatists have shot down an aircraft which is beyond their capabilities to do so? They have neither access to a BUK system nor the training even if they had one. I have seen zero evidence demonstrating any such capability, and it appears that regardless of this inconvenient reality, you would have us believe that the Separatists could do it anyway.

It's a very peculiar twisted scenario as you try to portray the side which is actually capable of shooting down the passenger jet as being "innocent", and the side which couldn't possibly shoot it down as "guilty". The Separatists don't have the capability, yet you continue to repeat the Western propaganda narrative implying that the Separatists are the guilty party. It's a nutty story that ignores all logic.
Zing, you're being rude. I haven't cited any "conspiracy theories". Not one. I have only cited questions and facts.

You're not being reasonable, you're using that "conspiracy theories" term like a cliche that you can't seem to drop using whenever the USA propaganda line is refuted by any evidence.According to a ruling of the Israeli high court in 2005, the IDF used human shields 1,200 times in the previous 5 years. There is overwhelming evidence that the IDF continues to use innocent civilians as human shields, including children. They've tied kids to the front of IDF vehicles and used a 9 year old boy to check bags for bombs.

On the other hand, the allegations against Hamas have never been supportable. Those allegations are only Israeli propaganda. The New York Times has conceded that ?There is no evidence that Hamas and other militants force civilians to stay in areas that are under attack.? The 2009 UNHCR Goldstone commission report stated that the Israeli Government has never provided any real evidence to support claims that Palestinian militants ?mingle routinely with civilians in order to cover their movements?.  Jeremy Bowen of the BBC's Middle East editor has recently said ?I saw no evidence of Hamas using human shields.? (From the "New Statesman" published, 22 July 2014)No, I don't joke.

I cited what is verifiable. Your disagreement with the ruling of the Israeli high court matters not to me. The IDF has used human shields repeatedly, apparently as policy. The UNHCR Goldstone Commission report makes it clear that the Israeli government never supported their allegations about the use of human shields by Hamas, however. Neither has any of the other story-telling by those Gaza massacre apologists withstood any serious checking for veracity.

We don't actually "know" who fires the rockets. Many of the rockets fired from Palestinian regions aren't fired by any official group representing the Palestinians ? evidence abounds that the Israeli government has employed collaborators who are there to instigate the cycle of violence. In February 2005 the IDF fired rockets on an Israeli town to make it seem that the Lebanese Hezbollah were responsible. This fraud was exposed by other members inside the IDF who were disgusted by this behaviour. This was a big story at the time, reported in Haaretz and elsewhere. Has this sort of false flag use happened before or since, we don't know, but it raises suspicions. Very, very, very few people are killed by these tiny rockets.

Israel's bombardment is smashing artillery and rockets into a high density population area, with two million civilians crowded into a tiny bit of land. Pretending the anyone who tries to resist being killed by the oppressing occupiers (Israel) is just "hiding" among the civilians is an illogical assertion that ignores this reality of the situation. As stated in the 2009 Goldstone commission report, there's no real evidence to support claims that Palestinian militants ?mingle routinely with civilians in order to cover their movements?.

The Israeli government has a proven history of breaking cease-fires. 2 months before the 2008-2009 Israeli 'Cast lead' operation that resulted in the mass murder of 1400 Palestinians, most of them civilians and 400 of them children, Israel broke a 5 month ceasefire with Hamas on November 4th, 2008 by assassinating six Hamas officials in Gaza. Further proof of Israeli cynicism was the report that the 'Cast Lead' attack on Gaza was planned six months previously. 

Please look up Haaretz for the news article about the IDF firing those rockets in February 2005. You can find it one of those archive sites easily enough. It's a fact that elements of the IDF staged a false flag rocket attack to blame on Hezbollah.

It is also quite easy to confirm that there collaborators working for sections of the Israeli military and/or Mossad on the West Bank and in the Gaza Strip. It is easy to confirm that collaborators have been caught occasionally or otherwise exposed as such. It is very easy to confirm that Israel broke every ceasefire during the 'Cast Lead' massacre of the Palestinians.

Where is the "conspiracy theory" that you refer to? I am citing facts. You can check them or ignore them, but they don't disappear. If you don't, I'm sure others will.

The government of Israel is engaging in a brutal campaign of extreme cruelty and terrorising of a civilian population who are restricted to the giant outdoor prison called the Gaza Strip. Two million people walled in on all sides, bombed like fish in a barrel. They have nowhere to escape to. They are trapped and they are being oppressed, murdered in these frequent massacres, while the massacre apologists always try to blame the real victims who have been slaughtered in their hundreds and in their thousands."Hamas just loves seeing Palestinian children die"

I really don't believe this story, it is very obvious self-serving spin spread by the Israeli massacre apologists in order to blame the oppressed for their own dire situation. You are defending mass murder, then claiming that the mass murderers are allowed to continue the slaughter because it is the fault of the victims who have been murdered.It's not "leftwing, and it's not "rightwing". Such attempts to put a divider there where for most people such "wings" don't exist except as myth are manipulative and false.

I prefer to keep strictly to what can be verified, is rational, and isn't an absurd self-serving "spin" by the perpetrator in their attempts to blame the real victim. The people in Gaza have no choice but to build tunnels if they are to survive. Israel - and through their deals with Egypt - have ensured that the people of Gaza are walled in on all sides in what is now a gigantic prison. Israel blockades nearly every vital necessity, engaging in collective punishment and oppression of the nearly 2 million people in the Gaza Strip. The Israeli government keeps them near starved if not for the supplies that are often smuggled in through those tunnels.

Gaza has no army, no air force. Therefore any of the people who are fighting to protect their land are on their own... obviously. Most are probably hiding and don't even know about any truce fire ... they are hiding for their lives and fighting for their people. According to your insane troll-logic, the Gaza people are not even allowed to defend themselves from the massacre. 2 million impoverished people are imprisoned by the Israelis and bombed and shelled with near impunity and constantly insulted for daring to democratically elect a government which stands up to these bloody-minded insane psycho-killer Israelis. Palestinians are locked in to a tiny strip of land with no safe place to run. They are being shot like fish in a barrel.Craig, you refer to an already debunked video that was released by MEMRI years ago. MEMRI had mistranslated what was said with malicious intent. You should do a search on the lies of MEMRI, it's a well known propaganda source associated with the Israeli government and was established by a former Mossad officer.

Gaza is occupied territory. The occupied have a right to defend themselves against the invaders. The Israelis are the invaders. They've oppressed the Palestinians in the most shocking ways for decades.Your statements are a totally upside-down distortion of the real situation. 

The occupation of Palestine and the blockade/siege of Gaza are illegal. The Palestinians are entitled to self-determination and to resist the occupation - within the bounds of international law. The Israelis do not have the right to prevent Palestinian self-determination nor to defend the occupation. It cannot simultaneously occupy the territory, thus usurping the self-governing powers that would otherwise belong to Palestinians, and declare war upon them. Israel argues that it can invoke the right to self-defence under international law as defined in Article 51 of the UN Charter. The International Court of Justice rejected this faulty legal interpretation in 2004.

The Israeli government leaders don't want peace, they only claim that they do, but their actions prove otherwise. Israel's government has a long history of deliberately breaking cease-fires with the Palestinians in order to provoke Palestinian response and then use that to justify Israeli mass murder of ever more Palestinians. Two months before the 2008-2009 Israeli 'Cast lead' operation that resulted in the mass murder of 1400 Palestinians, most of them civilians and 400 of them children, Israel broke a five-month-long ceasefire with Hamas on November 4th, 2008 by assassinating six Hamas officials in Gaza. Further proof of Israeli cynicism was the report that the 'Cast Lead' attack on Gaza was planned six months previously.  any of the rockets fired from Palestinian regions aren't fired by any official group representing the Palestinians ? evidence abounds that the Israeli government has employed collaborators who are there to instigate the cycle of violence.

Israel's government leaders don't recognise the right of Palestinians to have their own state and live in peace. By repeatedly breaking ceasefires, deliberately sabotaging peace negotiations, oppressing the Palestinian people, and mass murdering them repeatedly. Israel has proven that it's words are all lies, because the Israeli government actions contradict those words. Palestinians are regularly murdered by the Israeli military, slaughtered in huge numbers whenever it seems politically convenient for the Israeli leadership. Palestinian civilians are bombed, gassed, burnt, shot by machineguns and snipers. When others try to rescue victims of the Israeli instigated slaughter, the IDF snipers try to kill the rescuers too, targeting paramedics, ambulances, and even shooting dead parents in front of their children and shooting dead children in front of their parents. Their homes are destroyed by missiles, artillery, and bulldozers.I've read the Hamas charter, and discovered that it has been misrepresented by the Israeli propaganda. Israel has intentionally disseminated false and misleading translations in order to frame Hamas as the "bad guy".

The tunnels are made by numerous groups in the Gaza Strip for the primary reason of getting in vital supplies, medicines, consumer goods, a lot of food. People also hide in those tunnels during the regular bombardments that Israel has engaged in.

I know of 3 times that armaments were discovered in unused UNRWA premises; none of those occasions was there ever provided any evidence that Hamas was responsible for placing those armaments there. There are many sources that verify the Gaza Strip is crawling with Israel-employed collaborators and other groups as well.

Many of rockets fired from Palestinian regions don't seemed to be fired by any official group representing the Palestinians ? there's plentiful evidence of Israeli government employed collaborators whose job is to instigate more violence. The myth of the deadly rocket attacks from Gaza is only a fairy tale imagined, created and staged by Israel, the clues are there for all to see. Fewer people die from those rockets than the number of Israelis who die each year from peanut allergies. In February 2005 the IDF fired rockets on an Israeli town to make it seem that the Lebanese Hezbollah were responsible. This fraud was exposed by other members inside the IDF who were disgusted by this behaviour. This was reported in Haaretz.

The IDF has an apparent policy of using human shields. Recall the boy tied to the hood of a car a few years ago, or the 9 year old boy forced by IDF soldiers to check bags for bombs? I haven't seen one scrap of real evidence to support the claims of Hamas using human shields, but I've seen plenty that shows it's routine for the IDF to do this.

Israel's "Iron Dome" appears to be waste of money. It stops less than 5% of the rockets launched, and seems mostly intended to be a big show to point out, not a real defence system.

The people of Gaza would love to have proper bunkers; Israel has blockaded even the most basic of building materials for the Gazans.No, the Hamas Charter does not call for such a thing. You're repeating a well propagandised myth spread by Israel's government.Yet again with the recycling of the Igor Girkin faked recording? It's already been exposed as a fraudulent edited mix and proves nothing.

Again with the derogatory dismissal of all contrary evidence as "conspiracy theories"? How cheap.

More repetitions of the story referencing a debunked video about a Russian BUK that never actually was there. The video was made back in May, and showed a town closer to Kiev, the billboard was very revealing of this. It wasn't even Russian, just Russian-made, which are common since all of the Ukrainian BUKs are Russian made.

You continue to repeat unsupported allegations of Russian involvement, or claiming that the Russian are sneaking in military forces, without as scrap of evidence behind this malicious story telling.I seriously am caused to wonder whether if you're posting your comments from somewhere else in a parallel dimension. There's no evidence to support these repeated allegations of yours about Russian military forces operating in Ukraine. There's also none at to support the claims of a Russian military BUK being in the Ukraine. The video of the BUK launcher truck travelling back to Russia was debunked; it was identified as territory the government had held since May ? a billboard in the background gave the truth away. 



I wouldn't trust the USA on anything, since I quite well recall Colin Powell talking about the solidity of evidence for mobile bioweapons labs - while ignoring that those trucks were in fact built by a British company and sold to Iraq, as well as already known to be for artillery balloons.

The story about Igor Girkin and the GRU officer has been exposed as a fraud too; the recorded conversation was faked. It was an edited mish-mash bit of propaganda.

The so-called "Russian BUK" being in Ukraine is another fraud. For starters, it was a Ukrainian military BUK, and it was exposed as made in May in a different area; the old billboards gave that away.

The recent satellite images released by the Obama administration in the USA were fake. It's been exposed due to their typically bad skills in photoshopping. The images also had altered time stamps. They were in fact  taken days AFTER the shooting down of MH17. As per usual, the USA government officials and the bullshit factory known as the Obama administration lied, yet again.

The air traffic control records were later confiscated. The "evidence" which the Western media and political establishment shout about to blame Putin and the separatists is revealed as nothing but social media garbage and poorly faked youtube videos.
Reading this article I am motivated to wonder why the author believes that simply repeating such truckloads of self-serving propaganda is going to appear "balanced" when the intent is clearly to demonise certain parties. Diplomacy is from your words, the least likely reason for writing this article. The pretence of reasonableness that you start with is revealed as a thin preamble to a well worn oft-repeated stack of spin, distortions and falsehoods. You've missed the actual narrative of events in many cases entirely, turning much of it on it's head. The current round of mass slaughter which Israel is carrying out against the people in Gaza reminds me of what has happened previously, and the same lies by Israel's government are brought out again. Back in 2009, despite agreeing to the terms of a ceasefire, Israel's lying leaders never kept to the terms with their blockades on food, water, medicine, and fuel. This wasn't only in breach of the ceasefire terms, Israel was in breach of international law too with their mass punishment of a civilian population. Now they're doing it again. Israel's government leaders always lie about who broke the ceasefires, and it's always exposed later that it was Israel that did so, with no intention of abiding with any ceasefire for long. They did in 2009, I have no doubt they they're doing it again this time too. Internationally, the rest of us are waking up to what Israel really is, and what the Israeli government always does. Israel tries to blame the victim, while pretending that Israel ? a terrorist state founded on terrorism, thievery, and ethnic cleansing by forcing out the people of Palestine ? is somehow the ?victim? instead; an absurdity as blatant as having a gang of heavily armed thugs claiming that the woman and child they just raped, tortured, and murdered for the obvious thrill of it, were somehow the ones guilty of the crimes instead.

The author of this article also adds a bit of anti-Russian propaganda too, with the references to the shootdown of MH17. Seems that the author just wants to slam every one of the usual targets for the Western establishment, not letting problems such as evidence get in the way. The Ukrainian government has denied there were any military planes in the area at the time, but apart from the fact that Russia has detailed it's own radar surveillance and this has been supported by a foreign air traffic controller. There's also the BBC video report with witnesses describing the fighter jets following the passenger jet. There are many questions that the fascists who took over Kiev have not yet answered. Why did MH-17 deviate from its planned flight path? Why has the Ukrainian government not released the air traffic control records? Why did the Ukrainians deploy BUK anti-aircraft systems within range MH-17&amp;#8242;s flight path? Why was MH17 followed by a Ukrainian Su-25 fighter jet?There is no left or right on this debate. It's either are you supporting humane, moral, ethical behaviour - or - mass murder of hundreds of civilians and horrendous cruelty against people who are trapped in a gigantic walled prison. Shooting fish in a barrel is not considered self-defence by any sane person. Bombing people simply for who they democratically elected isn't considered right in most people's eyes either. It seems to me that those people who support this slaughter have something wrong in the head.Apart from the logical argument that Putin would have vetoed the UN resolution if he felt it was going to have any impact on him, all along it has been Russian President Vladimir Putin who has called for a ceasefire from the Kiev forces so that a full and safe international investigation can take place into what happened Flight MH17. Putin's appeal for safe passage for investigators has been wilfully ignored by the Kiev regime, which has if anything stepped up its violence in the region since the air crash. It's a highly suspicious coincidence that the Kiev government military attacked the central train station in the city of Donetsk just before and around the same time as when the airline crash corpses were to be transported. Why hasn?t the Obama administration joined Russian President Putin in calling for an objective, non-political international investigation?Those Ukrainian and NATO claims of Russia shelling the border regions are silly propaganda too. It doesn't matter how often it gets said, the claims of NATO and the Kiev regime were debunked days ago.

You misrepresent the situation just as the NATO propaganda does. The reality is that Kiev regime would not agree to a ceasefire in the area to allow investigators into the area. They've been hampering investigation at every turn with lies. The Kiev regime still have not released any recordings of the conversations between air traffic control and MH17 despite repeated requests.I have not seen one iota of evidence to support the assertion that Russia sent a BUK system into Ukraine at that time. What I have seen is repetitions of the claim by ignorant people who didn't bother checking if the claim was verifiable. Since the video upon which the claim is based was debunked awhile ago, I wonder when people will begin adjusting to the fact.Joe, I noticed that you never cited any particular video either. You just made claims without any references.

I have looked at the evidence, and the Russian-bashing propaganda from the likes of you has not withstood serious scrutiny nor rational debate. The USA didn't provide anything convincing at all with their "satellite imagery", what it also showed was men in Ukrainian military uniform. So, the bring out this silly myth making of Ukrainian soldiers "defecting" - then after firing the missile, rejoining the Ukrainian military formations they were part of. The same goes for the video uploaded by one of the USA government officials onto Twitter, it has zero credibility, blurry, with no way to reference the location or time. Apart from this, what else has the USA trotted out as "evidence"? Just more social media garbage!

I recall that video put online by a Ukrainian government official to his blog, alleging it was a recording of a conversation between a Russian intelligence officer and Igor Girkin got debunked a day later; it was a mish-mash of poorly edited, mis-matched audio. A fake. The claim that they were discussing the shootdown has already been exposed as just more Russian-bashing lies.

Recall the mis-quoting by Reuters of what Alexander Khodakovsky supposedly said? I do. Reuters' has been caught spreading false stories before without checking properly but this was particularly ridiculous. Turned out that Alexander Khodakovsky had really said was that separatists "might" have captured a BUK, not that they had, as he didn't personally know of any being captured at all. We already knew that the separatists lack the specialised training required to operate one anyway. So, since that lie was sunk, you now resort to repeating this nonsense about a Russian BUK driven into the Ukraine and then driven back out again - as I've seen you post here on this debate already. Ignoring that the video that supposedly showed this was debunked already, as the billboard in the video clearly identifies it as being the Kiev government controlled town of Krasnoarmeisk in the month of May.

Then there was that sillier story pushed about an Italian journalist (anonymous) who interviewed a separatist militant (also anonymous),

After the lies about WMDs in Iraq fiasco and the exposure of the lies about which side used chemical weapons in Syria, I would expect most people to be more demanding of objective facts and evidence instead of simply trumpeting the Western narrative. There's been no actual evidence brought forward by the USA, UK, Australia, nor the thugs in Kiev, to support their allegations and insinuations against either Putin or the separatists in Donetsk.

You'll have a lot of trouble pointing to a "conspiracy theory" in any of my comments, mate, since I never mentioned any theories at all! Stop rolling that old cliche derogatory allegation whThe claim doesn't withstand scrutiny, JoeBloggs.

The BBC has a video report online too, you should watch it. The witnesses describe Ukrainian fighter jets following MH17, and the likelihood of the explosion being in the sky. No launch was seen. The video released supposedly to support the USA claim that it was a Russian launcher was based on a Twitter feed, it's been debunked already. The allegation that locals claimed they saw the launch or a Russian BUK system brought in have also been debunked already. The Ukrainian government claims were debunked already as well, and nearly all so--called "evidence" cited by the USA trying to blame Russians or separatists was exposed as merely online social media rubbish. Most sane people don't give any credibility to Twitter nonsense nor anonymously uploaded Youtube videos.I have seen no evidence of this, regardless of Israel's persistent propaganda. I recall that the UNHCR Goldstone Report of 2009 included a statement to the effect that the Israeli government had never provided any evidence of to support claims that Palestinian militants ?mingle routinely with civilians in order to cover their movements?. The IDF has used civilians as human shields and there's plenty of evidence of that. The Israeli high court found that iDF soldiers had used civilians as human shields at least 1200 times between 2000 to 2005, and I remember the photo of the boy tied to the front of an IDF vehicle too.Palestinians are regularly murdered by the Israeli military, slaughtered in huge numbers whenever it seems politically convenient for the Israeli leadership. Palestinian civilians are bombed, gassed, burnt, shot by machineguns and snipers.

Maybe you want to blame the Palestinians for what happens to them, but I know what I keep seeing. They are the real victims, and the Israeli government is their oppressor and murderer.Israel's government breaks ceasefires too. The truth always comes out later.  The IDF also slaughters civilians in their thousands.

I haven't seen much evidence from the Russia-bashers to support any of those allegations of yours. Repetition doesn't count as much as solid evidence, and yet we see a lot of repetition of Russia-bashing and not a lot of evidence to go with it.The Russians were already in Crimea, they didn't "occupy" the region because they were already based there by a treaty going back decades. They didn't "annex" Crimea either, since the people had a referendum and willingly joined Russia on their own initiative. The vote was independently verified.(anyone who voted no or who was suspected of voting no or might vote no was intimidated and bashed.)

I have never seen any evidence to support this allegation. Independent international observers stated the referendum was held fairly and without such intimidation. It was legitimate.  The NATO nation government leaders who backed the Kiev coup just didn't like it.Shooting themselves in the foot seems to be well developed skill for the USA and the EU these days. These sanctions are backfiring badly. Russia doesn't appear to be paying much of a cost, and already had alternatives lined up since most of the world's nations care not for the delusions of the North Atlantic Bloc nations.The Native Amerindian population doesn't count then? How many millions died among them?

Nor the seven million people who starved to death during the Great Depression.

How many wars has the USA been involved in during the past one hundred years? It looks very like the old military industrial complex that Eisenhower warned of pulls most of the political strings. Just run around everywhere on trumped up excuses to bomb other countries and take their stuff. These days, mostly brown people getting bombed.On Earth, most nations people woke up a long time ago to the realisation that the Western governments are only a facade of democracy, lie about even the most simple things, and seem to love bombing countries for fictional reasons such as lies about WMDs.

Russia on the other hand hasn't been starting wars all over the place. The Russian media seems to be more truthful, and has scored more on the credibility scale.Zing, the Cold War finished a long time ago.

However, these days the majority of people can also verify a lot more news for themselves. There are many sources for comparison. We can think. We are not limited to a few newspapers, a few TV networks, which are all owned by only a very few rich people whose interests are best served by pandering to the same agenda as the political authorities which they helped to get elected. We have choices now that we didn't have before. People have learned that almost everything which they were taught in the western nations is filled with propaganda, distortions about history, and continued lies in the corporate media. We've learned that the Lusitania really did carry war material, that the Pearl Harbor attack was no surprise, that the Gulf of Tonkin was a beat-up exaggeration used as an excuse, that western governments engage in campaigns of false flag terrorism against their own citizens similar to Operation Gladio. We've a lot.

You can start catching up too.I've seen extremely little credible evidence of any kind to support the accusation of Russian-backed separatists being responsible for the shoot down of flight MH 17. This article appears to be more repetition of unsupported propaganda to demonise Russia yet again.Incorrect and ridiculous exaggeration, Whitey, that whole "mostly watched in the world" claim is utterly nonsensical. Satellites move, they are not sitting right over head watching every truck movement and if you knew more about satellite reconnaissance you would know better. They don't know yet who fired the missile, but they do know it wasn't the separatists as 'they' don't have any such missiles. The claim is that it was a BUK launcher, but the separatists don't have those. That claim of yours about a BUK missile launcher coming from Russia then going back to Russia was debunked already; the video released for that claim was made back in May and doesn't show what your claiming it did. The Ukraine government released a video as well, and the voices recorded on it are a mish-mash of edited pieces that mean it's a fake. The separatists have NEVER claimed responsibility for shooting the plane down, you must be swallowing the BS by the truckload to believe that rubbish you just stated. Neither Russia nor the separatists have any motive for shooting down a passenger plane. However, Ukraine's crooked bunch of thugs who were put into power in Kiev by coup, backed by the USA and NATO, definitely have motive to both shoot down a passenger plane and blame that on Russia or the separatists. Witnesses report that MH 17 was trailed by Ukraine fighter jets. MH 17 was off it's regular assigned route, and the Ukraine government has confiscated the air traffic control records and gagged the air traffic controllers.

Your "plenty of evidence" is entirely fictional.Realist, you shouldn't project on others what you so clearly intend to do yourself.

You obviously don't intend to take any contrary evidence into account.undated photos? no, not much to convince me there

Ukraine rebels did nothing to incriminate themselves. They didn't refuse investigators, nor hold bodies to ransom, the Western media made up a lot of nonsense as usual, always wanting to dramatize what isn't there.

It's disappointing about the lack of cynicism some show.A "trigger happy rebel"? Based on what? Whose credible evidence? All I've seen recently in the western media is over the top, insanely unsupported accusations and propaganda. They twist and lie about every event.Roje, on what evidence? You have provided none, and the USA, UK and Australian media have merely repeated cheap propaganda."apparently at the hands of Russian-backed separatists"

Mike, it appears that particular piece of propaganda hasn't done too well when placed against the mounting evidence that a Ukraine fighter-jet shot down MH17. Why did Ukraine air traffic control order MH17 to fly 300 km north of the regular assigned route, right over the war zone? Why did the Ukraine government confiscate all of the air traffic control records? Who made the rapidly debunked video cited by Ukraine to blame the separatists and did such a bad job of the fakery that even amateurs could recognise it as a fake? Why have the western media ignored all real evidence, and tried desperately to demonise the separatists despite the known fact that the Ukraine government leaders were put into power by a coup, and have even killed journalists?

If the western media propaganda was shovelled on any heavier, I'd have to hose down my TV screen with a tsunami to wash off all the BS.How would Australia have any effect on Russia at all? In your imagination?Who was behind that putting forward that UN draft resolution? Who really wrote it?

I recall well how John Howard as PM had a speech which exactly matched word for word the same speech as the Canadian PM of the same time about the need to invade Iraq eleven years ago.No, Duniya, that is dishonestly misrepresenting the debate sides. I don't know of any sceptics of AGW alarmism who deny that the climate changes, it's well known that the global climate has changed tens of thousands of times. The debate isn't about whether the climate changes or not. It's about how much to blame on humans, and whether any measures taken are worthwhile or a waste of time and effort better spent on something else. The sceptics aren't ignorant either, nor do they believe in flat Earth or whatever other nonsense you'd wish that they believed in, but which it's dishonest of you to claim.Apparently 1936 was hotter than 1998.

These warming and cooling periods come and ago, in some sort of cycle that scientists have yet to fully understand. Many solar experts believe that with the Sun going into a lower activity period, the Earth will go through a little Ice Age again.

The "cherry picking" that I've seen is mostly on the AGW doom and gloom side, where every bit of evidence that they can use to shout "The End Is Nigh" is cited as being the end of discussion, while anything that contradicts their drama-loving narrative is brushed aside.Alpo, I'm unsure of why you persist in ignoring the climate scientists and majority of all of the other scientists as well. Debate definitely does continue, and those claims of "consensus" which some people keep repeating as if were a magic word have been so thoroughly debunked as to be laughable.

Even your oft-repeated insult of calling those of opposing opinion from yourself "Denialist" is wrongheaded and misleading. Nobody is denying that the climate changes, they DO argue that the alarmism is misplaced. Considering the lack of reliability of those computer simulations, with 95% failure, and even the rest not predicting the longterm lack of any significant temperature increase in the atmosphere, people are quite rational to be sceptical.Sorry, Alpo, but it's not the latest expert knowledge you've brought here, it's outdated propaganda misrepresentations that rely upon on ignorance to be accepted. Climate scientists haven't been saying what the alarmists claim that the scientists have been saying, nor do most scientists agree with the IPCC opinions. It's not coal or oil backed, it's just a more accurate understanding of what science really is telling us. Trying as you do, to conflate scepticism with a desire to wreck the planet is equally as dishonest as your other claims so far. I've pointed out where the actual problems are, you're among those who have charged on ahead without paying the slightest heed to facts that don't fit a peculiar paradigm that blames humans for everything, and can't even blame humans for the correct things. China is continuing to build coal-fired power stations, Germany is planning to wind back on the development of nuclear power, the USA's current Obama administration has little credibility on anything since they appear more interested in wars and protecting a corrupt financial system.Clarke, I cited the 95% failure rate from a peer-reviewed paper on the subject. You may also take into account that NONE of the models predicted the so-called "Pause". You can go back to recycling defensive excuses if you wish, but I prefer to base my decisions upon what's real.It's not a ridiculous lie to say that there's been no significant warming of the atmosphere for the past 17 years. The real evidence shows that temperature is anything but a "sustained" increase because what warming there was has slowed to such an extent as it's become debatable among scientists as to whether there has been any warming at all in since the mid-1990s or whether the measurements are an fictional result of software code. Over the past several weeks, the NOAA and NASA were exposed as using a formula which always resulted in reduction of earlier temperatures so as to give the illusion of higher later temperatures by comparison.

As for your dismissal of "conspiracy" as it that were something of fantasy, you must have been hiding elsewhere when the Climategate scandal exposed exactly that there was a conspiracy. The emails and software code enlightened many people on that point. A group of scientists conspiring to intimidate journal editors, censor evidence that contradicted their AGW alarmist claims, manipulate peer-review. That sort of dodgy behaviour has become unfortunately too common in Science.Malcolm, your cheap attempt to conflate the very different beliefs in such a dishonest way should shame you.

Just because I happen to cite well known, verifiable facts which you dislike (Climategate really DID happen, deal with it), you resort to some pointless comparison that I must be "religious".

It's not at all a lie to say that there has been no significant warming in the atmosphere since the mid 1990s. It's a verified fact. Look it up. Check the temperatures. Even the IPCC admits this.

No, Malcolm, that assertion of yours that sceptics are only working for some agency or sponsor isn't based on facts either. Just another Ad Hominem attempt instead of sticking what the sceptics are actually saying and the facts cited. You've even gone further into the false conflating of beliefs trying to equate scepticism with creationism. Get off it, mate, stick with real debate and real science please.

Lisa Meredith, I know you want to feign intellectual superiority, but your attempt comes off badly because you fail to deal with the actual statements.

I see that you'd prefer to cite a guesstimate about energy accumulation rather than contradict my statement about the lack of significant temperature increase in the atmosphere. Come back when you can counter what I've said about atmospheric temperature increase, don't dodge the facts by carrying about somebody's coffee table estimate based on assumptions that aren't verified by anything in the temperature records. The fact remains that there's been no significant increase in atmospheric temperatures. The IPCC latest report tried to pretend that somehow "warming" was hiding in the oceans, not even at the surface, by deep oceans, closer to more likely seismic heat sources.Malcolm, you're pretending that those models would be accurate based on some wild concept that the scientists have magical powers to Know Everything. Well, sorry, the models proved otherwise by failing. The scientists themselves would never claim to have taken into account every possible factor because we really don't know much at all. Only a few years ago, nobody even knew about the influence of cosmic rays on cloud formation. So how would they take that into account? They didn't know a decade ago that there were millions of seismic heat sources such as undersea volcanoes either, but underestimated their number by a huge factor. The current lack of solar activity and the lack of significant warming took the climate scientists completely by surprise, so I wonder where your faith is coming from? They got it wrong, Malcolm.

Technically, it's not even "sustained" warming. Sustained implies the same rate of warming, and that's definitely not happening. The rate dropped off greatly, and is now so minimal that one could argue that it might be less than the reliable accuracy of the measuring instruments.Some ice melts, and some ice accumulates. The ice sheets that were melting in Greenland and Antarctica were melting due to seismic heat sources. Yet, AGW alarmists continue to ignore science and blame humans. Past few years, the extent of the ice sheets at the poles have been at record levels. Antarctica has broken records for cold temperatures.Counter productive action simply for the sake of "doing something" is worse than useless, it's a damaging waste of effort and resources that can make other problems far worse.

Every time I see somebody calling for action without any care in the world about what it would cost, how wrong headed it might be, or how useless it would be, I wonder if I'm looking at the rantings of a dodgy insurance salesman trying to sell a scam.

I don't see any benefits for a tax on CO2 either. Except to the carbon credit scammers and a few industries that can't survive on their merits but beg for subsidies at everyone else's expense.I think it's admirable. Commonsense at last.

South Korea has abandoned the idea of a tax on CO2 as well.

Sanity reigns at last.

Finally, reality is rearing it's ugly head, as the unproven claims of AGW alarmism continue to be exposed as fraud and propaganda rather than actual scientific fact. The doomsayers yelling loudly about how wondrous their silicon prophets are have been exposed as charlatans whose climate simulations are notoriously unreliable, and likely rigged. They certainly haven't made any worthwhile predictions that can be used for future planning.Crow, why haven't you yet taken the time to check the facts somewhere other than a climate alarmist blog?

If you're still holding firm to the belief that all climate scientists support the AGW alarmists bandwagon, I doubt that you'd change your mind with the fact that the scientists themselves in the majority don't hold to any such "consensus". None of those consensus claims has withstood any scrutiny at all, they've been refuted repeatedly by peer-reviewed papers.Which "consensus" is that then? The IPCC won't commit to a best estimate of climate sensitivity as there is no consensus between participants. The surveys which were held up as evidence for "consensus" have been extremely thoroughly debunked. I haven't seen any of these claims of "consensus" withstand scrutiny,

I really don't care either way about coal, I just care about real science. Not the propagandised version promoted by human-hating "green" extremists, nor the kind pushed by politicians who see carbon taxes as another excuse for increasing revenues.Lisa Meredith, you should already know by now that Natural sources of CO2 account for nearly ALL of the rise in the atmospheric CO2 levels, Why are you ignoring such basic facts as this? Natural CO2 emissions each year = 192 to 220 gigatonnes. Human CO2 emissions each year = 6 to 8 gigatonness. The natural variability is six times the entirety of human emissions, and if you can count, it's close to thirty times the amount of CO2 from human sources. Therefore blaming humans for most of the CO2 rise is a ridiculous pile of BS. Worse for the crazies trying to say CO2 is warming the planet is that the ice core data Does Not support their silly nonsense; the CO2 rises have always occurred 200 to 1000 years AFTER the warming, not before it.

It's an irrelevancy in argument to carry on about greenhouse effect when you're blaming the wrong factors in the first place. CO2 does not drive the warming on this planet, it's the other way around as the ice core data shows. 
I don't know anyone who denies that CO2 is greenhouse gas, but there is overwhelming evidence that human emissions of CO2 are thirty times LESS than that released by Natural Sources.

Saying "temperatures have increased" isn't lying, but it is misleading when you fail to mention that the temperatures have only marginally, insignificantly increased in the deep oceans - elsewhere, the atmospheric temperatures have NOT increased. The upper atmosphere has been cooling since the 1980s, and rest of the atmosphere hasn't significantly increased in temperature since 1998.Alpo, you're the one doing the misleading here. The major source of the CO2 increase just happens to be NATURAL. That's what I was referring to, natural CO2 emissions are thirty times greater than human CO2 emissions each year. By claiming that most of the CO2 is industrial, Alpo, you're either demonstrating utter ignorance or wilful denial of the fact that natural emissions of CO2 are far greater.

Why do you also insist on pretending anyone is "denying" anything? That whole "denier", "denialist" insult rubbish is just the sort of thing that propagandists engage in. Just like they did the USSR when anyone went against the party line.

You repeat ignorance and declare it to be "true" when the statements you make in defence of the lies of the AGW catastrophe narrative are either twisting, misleading, or misrepresenting the actual scientific opinion and the scientifically verified evidence.Malcolm, you got it wrong there, not surprisingly.

"The natural emissions are a constant"

WRONG. Natural CO2 emissions vary widely, from 192 to 220 gigatonnes each year, a range of variability which is many times greater than the whole of human CO2 emissions each year. You can't plan for volcanic eruptions, and the Sun's variability was not factored into the climate models which the IPCC tried to claim were so reliable. Neither was cosmic radiation factored in, despite having highly significant influence on cloud formation.

I find it very strange that you're ignorant of what sceptics of the alarmist hype are actually saying. Nobody in the scientific community denies that humans "may" have "some" effect on climate, but almost NONE are agreeing the kind of nonsense peddled by alarmists about catastrophes and the need to beggar the world economy with stupid ideas like carbon taxes that will do NOTHING to the climate.Malcolm, you stated that natural CO2 emissions are constant. That is incorrect. There's no cherry picking involved, just simple, easy to understand numbers. 192 to 220 gt per year from natural sources, that's 28 gt in variation. Human CO2 emissions are only 6 to 8 gt per year. Anyone objective about this can recognise that the "tipping point" argument relies upon a false premise; natural CO2 stability. Natural sourced CO2 varies more wildly and to a greater range than human sourced CO2.

I don't "deny" scientifically verified reality, you do. I'm quite aware that the vast majority of scientists agree that there might be some influence by humanity on the global climate, but the AGW doomsayers mislead everyone with the pretence that all of these scientists are saying that the world is heading for disastrous warming and ONLY humans can be at fault. That pretence is an outright lie. The sceptics are NOT denying the climate changes, they are NOT denying that humans have "some" effect, they are NOT ignoring science, they are NOT a bunch of loons or irrational idiots. Calling them deniers, or saying that the sceptics are in "denial" of science is a ridiculous misrepresentation of what the real position is.Sir Robert of Lindsay, drop the Ad Hominem and stick with the facts please. If you can't refute what someone else has stated, keep in mind that calling them names or otherwise attacking them personally doesn't add to your case.

If you have issue with anything that I've stated, then argue against that. Kick the ball, not the man.And conflating the entirety of the CO2 increase with the industrial revolution is an attempt to mislead. Nearly all of that CO2 increase is from NATURAL sources, but AGW catastrophists want to pretend otherwise.Whose science and which view of it? If you're going to roll out those nonsensical already debunked claims about "consensus", then you're likely misrepresenting the view of the majority of climate scientists. Maybe you've been convinced by the loudmouth political lobbyists and the media garbage shovellers who couldn't be bothered with real facts anyway since shoutig to the rooftops that the sky is falling can get much more attention than just telling the boring truth which isn't particularly exciting at all. Most scientists don't agree with the propaganda-style doom and gloom misrepresentations about climate change, nor do they agree with the IPCC's peculiar self-serving claims to gain itself continued funding in search of a catastrophe which isn't happening. Blaming CO2 is mostly born of an outdated exaggerated - yet convenient to some - misunderstanding about the influence of a greenhouse gas that is very minor in comparison to the effect of water vapour in our atmosphere.Ruby and Bella, while Ad Hominem and lies about other people might be fun for you, sticking to the truth is a lot more effective. It brings greater clarity and knowledge to everyone.

You've paid little attention to what the scientific evidence makes abundantly obvious. Ice cores show that CO2 levels have always risen centuries AFTER the warming, there must therefore be other factors involved, blaming CO2 for warming is just blaming the wrong target, so toss your belief in Al Gore's version of "science" into the garbage where it belongs.

As for cherry picking data, that must be what those folks at the University of East Anglia and Michael Mann were exposed as doing. That and trying to manipulate the peer-review process, bias models to fit an agenda, and refuse to release raw data in contrary to the expected ethics of other scientists in every other field.

I have no idea how you would believe that capping volcanoes and telling nature to stop releasing so much CO2 is going to help. You can't blame humans for the CO2 rise, as the evidence is very easy to see which shows otherwise: natural sources account for thirty times as much CO2 each year as human sources do.You're misrepresenting the reality of what most climate scientists agree upon. The vast majority, 99%, do NOT believe that the almost insignificant warming will result in catastrophic consequences, nor do they trust the models which the IPCC liked to hold up as "accurate" doomsayers with exaggerated predictions of what a tiny extra bit of CO2 would do. The scientists know very well that CO2 is a minor greenhouse gas, and also that natural sources of CO2 are thirty times greater in emissions than human sources of CO2.Berational, I'm glad that your Dad was wrong. Clearly the world didn't heat up in some disastrous way at all. Since the 1980s, the upper atmosphere has been cooling. Since the mid-1990s, the rest of the atmosphere has scarcely warmed in any significant manner. The warming that the IPCC wants to claim as evidence to beat humans over the head with, has been mostly in the deep oceans where it's far, far, far more probable to be a result of seismic heat sources.OL, I took the time to be well informed, maybe you should too.

Natural CO2 variability is six times greater than the total of the CO2 emissions from human sources. One major volcanic eruption can release more CO2 that humans have done in all of human recorded history. An undersea vent releases more CO2 than a coal-fired powerstation could in two centuries. Considering the enormous variability of natural emissions overwhelming the human emissions by such a huge factor, the concept of nature being so finely tuned as you would claim is ridiculously improbable.

You can "wonder" in funny fictional "implications" of silly stories trying to say that humans are responsible for volcanic eruptions and undersea vents all you like, but I'd prefer to stay well grounded in reality.

I suppose you would also like to pretend that the big glowing ball in the sky has no influence on temperatures either. I recall some other AGW doom and gloomer trying to claim that Sun wasn't variable in output, ignoring all the science known about solar cycles that match better with historical climate changes than those poorly created, highly unreliable (95% failure) simulations which the IPCC wants everyone to have a religious faith in.

Record cold in Antarctica and most of the Southern Hemisphere too.300 Km2 sounds such a big number but proportionally it's not big at all. The ice sheets have thickened over most of Antarctica, and the Arctic Ice has been thicker in recent years as well. The places where melting was being touted as "evidence" for alarmists to scream about has since been discovered to be due to seismic heat sources under the Greenland ice sheets, and the Western Antarctic icesheets.

I don't make conclusions based on preconceptions and little data, I base my conclusions on what's actually been happening. The world has hardly warmed at all since 1997-1998, and the upper atmosphere has been getting colder for almost thirty years. The IPCC reports try to claim that warming is "hiding" in the oceans, ignoring all of the real science, and ignoring that most of that extra heat in the oceans has been from seismic sources. I also don't bother giving much credibility to computer simulations of climate that are wrong 95% of the time, and many of which were exposed as rigged back when Climategate hit the news.GraemeF, that particular little story claiming that the MWP wasn't worldwide was debunked by later peer-reviewed papers and plentiful research ages ago. I know you'd like to hang on to the myth but it's been refuted already.

You're should stop playing Ad Hominem too.

As for when was the hottest year, that's VERY debatable. NOAA and NASA were fiddling figures instead of going by raw temperature data, using a formula which lowered previous temperature numbers resulting in the illusion of higher later temperatures. The temperature adjustments story has been brewing for weeks. Surely you heard of it?Then why do cherry pick one year in one region? So what if it may have been marginally the hottest year in Australia, it has been the coldest in Antarctica and most of the rest of the Southern Hemisphere. Maybe you should stop cherry picking too.

Overall, the global climate has scarcely warmed at all since the mid-1990s. On top of this little inconvenience to the alarmist view, there's the annoying fact that many other periods in Earth's history have been much warmer than now, without any need for humans driving cars or operating factories to make that happen.That "consensus" claim is a misrepresentation, and been debunked repeatedly. Only 0.5 % of climate scientists believe that there is a likelihood of catastrophic human-caused global warming, the vast majority of other scientists views are however lied about by those who prefer to profit from the alarmism in some way.

Naomi Oreskes essay was separately refuted by Benny Peiser and Klaus-Martin Schulte. They tried to replicate Oreskes findings and instead found that less than one-third of the papers cited by Oreskes actually endorsed the catastrophic view, and only a few percent or less did so explicitly.

The survey by Doran and Zimmerman in which they claimed 97% support was evidenced, not only didn't ask the correct question, they then misrepresented the results. They cherry picked 79 scientists out of 3,146 who had responded to the survey, then because 77 of those agreed with what Doran and Zimmerman were asking, they claimed 97% consensus, Cherry picking is bad enough, but trying to pretend that such a survey is scientific while blatantly misrepresenting the views of 3,146 scientists is even worse.

The paper by William R. Love Anderegg was also just more cherry picking. 200 scientists out of thousands does not a consensus make.

The paper by John Cook was quickly refuted by David R Legates (and 3 co-authors); they found that only 0.3% endorsed the AGW alarmist view that human activity was causing most of the global warming. Also, many climate scientists publicly protested that Cook ignored or misrepresented their work.

So, no, you're incorrect. The evidence is not "overwhelming", it's underwhelming but being exaggerated by a noisy group who try to pretend there is a consensus argument supporting their twisted version of scientific opinion.



Dr Who, a refutation is still a refutation, facts stand on their own, but besides that, all of those papers I mentioned were in fact peer-reviewed despite your blatant misrepresentations. 

Ad Hominem silliness doesn't support your claims either. Christopher Monckton is also a well respected mathematician, and he was dealing with statistical evidence that requires a knowledge of mathematics; that makes what he says have more weight than your kindergarten insults against him. You can always find a someone in disagreement with someone else. What's a "denier" anyway? That childish attempt to conflate a denial of climate change - which NOBODY among the sceptical scientists is doing - with everyone who happens to be sceptical of the alarmist hype is a blatant dishonesty.

You failed ENTIRELY to deal with all of the papers being refuted, you just used insults instead. How pointlessly rude of you.Sorry, General, but if the facts don't fit your prior assumptions it's advisable to change your assumptions to fit the facts. When a peer-reviewed paper is refuted by others in a scientific manner with proper evidence and logic, that's just some of those uncomfortable facts of the kind that should be taken to heart and encourage thorough re-thinking of a position. It doesn't matter a flying pig if you don't "like" the people providing the refutal.

This is where you never got around to understanding the fundamentals of scientific advancement before you attempted an Ad Hominem.You don't need to be a climate scientist to publish a peer-reviewed paper that relies on statistical analysis to refute another paper that relied upon statistics. Perhaps, experientia docet you need to realise that surveys require a proper understanding of statistical analysis, but also that favouritism towards an alarmist "in-crowd" is NOT a requirement.I think I think, this is why I always cite peer-reviewed papers to debunk those crazy AGW alarmist propaganda claims. You can find over a thousand peer-reviewed papers which contradict the doom and gloom AGW catastrophe alarmism. Repeatedly, those claims of "consensus" have been refuted thoroughly.Theos, stop repeating that ridiculously fictional claim about "every" major scientific organisation. You know very well that your statement is utterly without any credibility, and that the ONLY list being circulated around in support of it is short list with ONLY a mere 12 nations represented. There are 
1) a lot more nations than just 12,
2) a lot more scientific organisations even than those on that list
3) the consensus claim has been refuted, debunked, and shot down so thoroughly that the only thing keeping it in debate is the stubborn refusal of certain people to admit to anything which contradicts the alarmist hypeTheos, that claim of yours is completely wrong. You're misrepresenting the scientific view, you're claiming a consensus when there is none, you're ignoring the existence of peer-reviewed papers that contradict the AGW alarmism (I've already mentioned where these can be found, but you have never refuted any of them).

There definitely IS debate, it has never stopped, and it's a lie to claim there is a consensus when all those claims of consensus have been debunked, repeatedly!

The truth of the matter is that scientists in the vast majority don't believe this alarmist hype in the media, nor the alarmist propaganda that a few environmental groups promote. Although most scientists agree that there may be some influence by humans on the climate, most scientists also do NOT agree with the alarmist view that the change will be catastrophic or even far beyond the normal range of climate changes in the past. Your claims about "every" scientific organisation in the world have been debunked repeatedly as well, but you apparently haven't got any cares about truth, but instead repeat the same already debunked propaganda narrative.Nearly all that observed increase in CO2 is from natural sources. This is scientific fact which alarmists prefer to avoid admitting to, or try to misrepresent to everyone else.

Humans are the source of 6 - 8 gigatonnes of CO2 each year, which alarmists continually try to say is overwhelmingly important and influential because that sounds like a big number to the ignorant. Nature has humans beat though, with a lot more CO2 from natural sources by a factor of 20 - 30 to one. Even the variation of CO2 emissions is six times greater. One major volcanic eruption puts out more CO2 than humanity has done in all of human history. Undersea vents release more CO2 than coal fired powerstations produce in centuries.

You're using the fact of greenhouse effect as a strawman. The truth is that CO2 is a very minor GHG, and water vapour is far more influential. For both, it's irrational to blame humans for the majority of the increase in warming. It's worse than that, it's an outright lie when alarmists try to conflate the recognised fact of greenhouse gases with solely supporting their alarmist propaganda.Theos, if you wish to check for peer-reviewed papers contradicting the AGW alarmism, there's a thousand that I've already mentioned and told where to find.

Why do you ignore them?Well, regardless of the number of swimming pools that could be filled with CO2, nature would continue to add thirty times as much CO2 as humans do. That's without any extras such as nature is prone to randomly include: major volcanic eruptions add more CO2 in one shot that humans have been able to in all of recorded history.

experientia docet ,  do you see what I mean about alarmists trying to hoodwink everyone by pretending that a big sounding number is somehow more powerful than the actual proportions involved? It wouldn't matter if the human sourced CO2 was measured in grams or milligrams, it remains only a tiny fraction of the CO2 from natural emissions. Trying the typical cheap alarmist conjob of only sticking for the upper range when that upper range is still TINY(!) does not impress any rational educated person. The variability of the natural emissions of CO2 is six times greater than ALL of human CO2 combined, so the "tipping point" argument fails logic.Dr Who, don't try to use BS, it is a simple, easily verified fact is that human emissions of CO2 are only a fraction each year of what natural emissions of CO2 are. Nature beats humanity on the CO2 every year, and always has. By a huge factor of around thirty to one.

Therefore, the dishonesty of alarmists trying to pretend that human emissions of CO2 are greater is blatant.

You can look up over a thousand peer-reviewed papers on the popular technology website which specifically go into details that contradict the AGW alarmist view.

Also, those scientific organisations you mentioned are not the majority of those on this planet. Most of the world's scientific organisations don't agree with the AGW alarmism. Russian academics and solar scientists from other nations are strongly arguing that the Sun is the major influence on global climate, and that the solar cycles are expected to result in decades of cooling starting soon.

It's also falacious to argue "probability" when trying to claim that some one else is wrong when Science doesn't work that way. Facts and evidence are required, not silly rubbish that a "few" organisations must be "right" when they might be only repeating a politically-motivated view. Every one of those organisations you named has also been caught out in numerous scandals over the years which weaken their credibility.

No truly rational mind would fall for your falacious argument.Yes, Evan, the AGW catastrophe bunch want to ignore those little nuisances. Having the narrative of doom shattered by increasing knowledge of the past including that Earth has gone through 30,000 climate changes in the past 65 million years without any need for humans is just too much. Some are continuing to claim in ignorance that global climate requires centuries to change, even after it was found in 2009 that many previous changes in the global climate happened in just a few months. They'll likely continue shouting how terrible warming will be regardless of the known fact that the Earth has been much warmer than the present, and that those times were marked by plentiful food and crops being grown in places that we can't grow those same crops in now.No, we don't know what the "natural balance" is, and to presume that humans have caused a change that overwhelms such a "balance" isn't logical. Nature has increased the emissions of CO2  on it's own, influenced by factors which remain unknown. Seismic activity has increased globally for the past sixty years, and we don't know why. Natural sources of CO2 account for between 192 gigatonnes to 220 gigatonnes each year, the variability alone is six times greater than the total of what human emissions add to the atmosphere, therefore natural variations disprove this claim of humans overwhelming the "balance".

Many scientists argue that this focus on blaming humans for the majority of climate change is dangerously ignoring scientifically verified facts regarding the influence of the Sun and other natural sources of heat. Dangerous because instead of hyping up the fear of a global warming which is fundamentally insignificant in comparison to natural variations of temperature, we should be preparing for a more likely little Ice Age such as a Maunder Minimum. Cool periods result in much higher death tolls as agricultural production drops, leading to mass starvation and entire regions that were previously habitable with good farmlands instead becoming far too cold to live in.There's no evidence that humans have influenced any kind of natural CO2 equilibrium to the extent of a catastrophe, nor is there any evidence that human CO2 outweighs natural CO2 in variability or influence. Chemically the CO2 is indistinguishable and can have no greater or less effect. The natural variation in CO2 is at least six times greater than the entire entirety of yearly CO2 emissions from human sources, therefore any attempt to blame humans for upsetting some kind of equilibrium isn't supportable.

We must also accept that too much more is unknown. In the 1990s, we vastly underestimated how many undersea volcanoes there are. It's now estimated there are around three million. The IPCC reports cite models that have repeatedly failed to predict anything, and none of those models can explain the higher temperatures of the 1930s, nor the lack of any significant warming since the mid-1990s. The models didn't include the Sun as a variable influence, ignoring the scientifically established knowledge that the Sun's output does vary in cycles which we are still learning of. The models didn't include cosmic radiation as a factor either, because it wasn't known ten years ago the extent to which cosmic rays influence cloud formation. Ice core data confirms that CO2 rises in the past have always occurred centuries after warming, therefore the CO2 is not a factor among the causes of that warming but rather a long delayed result of the warming through a mechanism which we don't yet understand.Not "weasel words", Alpo, just simple, easily verifiable fact.

The vast majority of scientists also happen to agree that AGW is highly unlikely to lead to catastrophe. Despite the alarmists continual refusal to abide by the evidence of their claims of "consensus" being refuted repeatedly.Dr Who, the attrition rate of coral may or may not having anything to do with humans. You're conflating one thing with another in a cheap lie.

Plants don't chemically distinguish human CO2 from natural CO2 neither does the ocean. My point remains valid, the CO2 is chemically indistinguishable. Scientists can distinguish between the sources because we use extremely sensitive instruments designed for just that purpose.

Wrong, the natural variation is already exposed in the basic numbers. Natural CO2 emissions vary yearly from 192 to 220 gigatonnes. Human CO2 is only 6 gigatonnnes. Do the math, the natural variability is far greater than the entire quantity of yearly CO2 emissions from human sources.

The ice core data long ago debunked the AGW alarmist claims. I noticed that you prefer to avoid the results of the ice core data, that these showed CO2 always rose 200 to 1000 years AFTER the warming. By itself, this totally demolishes the AGW alarmists ideology that puts CO2 on a mystical pedestal of GHG influence above that of water vapour, and ignores the annoying truth that natural sources of CO2 not only beat human sources in quantity of emissions on yearly basis, but also make up the vast majority of the CO2 added to the atmosphere during the past two centuries.Climate scientists beliefs are often misrepresented in this debate. All scientists on the agree that humans have "some" likely effect on the climate. What's being misrepresented is the degree, the extent of that effect on climate, and what the scientists believe about it. There are huge amounts of money funding the alarmism too, and the mainstream media seems to love exaggeration about catastrophes.Sandra S, are you proposing that we now tell nature to stop it's enormous CO2 emissions? How so? Do you want everyone to go around yelling at volcanoes to stop adding all that CO2 to the atmosphere?

Nearly all of the CO2 increase in the atmosphere is from Natural Sources. Human emissions are only about one-thirtieth of what the natural CO2 emissions are, and are only a tiny amount of what was already there, as well as what is added each year.

An ETS or any other kind of carbon tax is not going to prevent volcanoes and undersea vents from adding CO2 to the atmosphere. The whole idea that humans can beat Nature in CO2 emissions, is a combination of insanity born of ignorance among far too many AGW alarmists, and greedy politicians who see a new excuse for increasing taxation revenues.Unfortunately, citizen smith, your plans rely upon a misunderstanding of scientifically verified reality. CO2 does not drive global warming, as analysis of ice cores have repeatedly discovered, CO2 levels rise centuries AFTER the warming has occurred. The variability of the Sun was not considered a factor in those computer simulations which the IPCC liked to glorify as wondrously accurate prophets of doomsday, and so it shouldn't be surprising that the models failed. None of the models predicted the lack of any significant warming since the mid-1990s. According to satellite data, there's been no atmospheric warming since at least 1998, and the upper atmosphere temperatures have been falling slowly since the late 1980s. The warming that is currently being cited as "evidence" is all in the deep part of the oceans, where it's far more likely to be a result of seismic heat sources, undersea volcanoes and vents.

According to an increasing number of scientists, the Earth is also far more likely to go into a long cooling period, in keeping with Solar cycles. If true, then in 25 years time, we'll be experiencing a Daunton Minimum or possibly a Maunder Minimum. The "solar denialists" in the AGW alarmist camp want to tell everyone that the big glowing ball in the sky doesn't have any effect on climate, but don't go believing them yet.Climate change can occur in merely months, slamming down a lot faster than "centuries". Recent scientific discoveries of the past decade have found that climate change can violently, devastatingly fast. It took only months for Europe to freeze solid 12,800 years ago. We've had warmer periods than the present, and we still have much to learn about how climate functions, as the many failed climate simulations have exposed that scientists are in the dark about most of the factors.

You really shouldn't play childish games of insulting people, just stick with the actual evidence - and learn to adjust your views with that evidence. It may not be to your liking, and may not fit previous assumptions or media spread rubbish, but nature doesn't care much about people's views.Clive Palmer seems to be mostly just a political opportunist, using an issue to score points and play games in the political theatre.To be fair, the Japanese government has already apologised 13 times officially. This little inconvenient fact never stopped the Japan-bashers who never bother to check their facts, nor will it prevent old opponents such as China ignoring any and all apologies.

The government of Japan during WW2 was led by very different people. Recall that the military extremists had taken over, all elections were rigged. The emperor had no power or authority at all during the war. Politicians who opposed the war were murdered.How do you definie conditional? I would think that a very general vague apology would be a lot less apologetic.

It propbably is true that most prosititutes were paid. I can not recall too many armies that did not have that kind of business assoiciated with it during wartime.

Apparently you believe that it is OK for Aussies to go to war memorials but not for Japanese to do the same. Yasukuni is a shrine and war memorial to all those who fought and died in wars, just as war memorials in Australia are. Australian soldiers also commtited atrocities in wartime, but being victors, they get to write the history. Shooting of Japanese soldiers who had surrendered or been captured was well hidden for decades, but it happened anyway.

Many Australians do not see Ned Kelly in the same way as you might.I've never heard Dick Warburton "deny" that the climate changes. He may express scepticism about the activists claims about computer models that never seem to predict anything right.4 degrees of warming predicted by the same mob who never got any other predictions right either....

The other issues are problems, but conflating fictional problems with real ones is very often used as a technique to confuse people in order to push some scam.The only people that I know who dispute the science are the activists who keep misrepresenting debate. They resort to such cheap dishonesties as calling sceptics various misleading names like "climate change denier" even though the sceptics are not denying that the climate changes, indeed the sceptics point out that the climate on Earth has changed many times already, with no need to blame humans for it. These same activists have an annoying habit of pretending that any criticism of "their" claims is somehow magically denying "science, when it's the scientific evidence being cited by sceptics which is refuting the activists claims. Some of these activists use fallacious arguments of popularity, ignoring that the "evidence" they cite for this "consensus" has been refuted repeatedly with peer-reviewed papers. I wouldn't mind them so much if they stuck to verifiable facts, yet these activists appear incapable of doing so.Um, who is denying that the climate changes? Aren't you blatantly misrepresenting the sceptics with yet more lying about what they're really saying? I suppose you always skip past the message and rely on your internal version of it instead.

They are not denying the climate changes, the sceptics pointing out that it's changed tens of thousands of times with no requirement for any humans driving cars or having coal burning power stations. It's not as if humans can seriously beat nature for CO2 emissions anyway. One big volcanic eruption, boom, more CO2 added by good old nature than humans can release into the atmosphere in thousands of years. A lot of undersea vents add more CO2 than a coal-fired power station can in centuries. There's these peculiar activists types who keep pretending otherwise, exaggerating human CO2 emissions importance, apparently unaware that all they're really doing is serving a different bunch of toxin producers, plastics makers, pharmaceutical industries, politicians who just want excuses to raise taxes, funny money investors out to play with another scam (carbon credits are a casino for them), and the nuclear lobby (who don't seem to care about radioactive materials poisoning the environment for thousands of years)."These positive feedback mechanisms will accelerate climate change to dangerous levels in our lifetime"

Let me guess that silly prediction comes from the same biased GIGO climate simulations that never get their predictions fitting reality, while the IPCC and a few misleading activists pretend that the models are just great and there's a consensus (which doesn't actually exist)Many periods in the past have been warmer than the present. They were times of plentiful food, as agriculture produced much more. Blossoming times for civilisation and great works of art.

It's the cold periods you should be worrying about. Times of less food, more starvation, glaciers and ice covering much more the landscape forcing the desperately hungry survivors of the devastating cold to move closer to the equator, or learning how to survive in extreme cold. Not good times for civilisations that got used to warm times.I disagree. Art and music should be respected for what it is, not decided upon by our personal feelings about the artist. Besides, to attack the art, remove it, to ban it's sale or otherwise destroy it, would also harm all of those who could be compensated by the wealth gained from that art. Banning something seems to be too common a response these days to everything, it's usually a very stupid response, on the same level of lynch mobs and other acts led by people who can't think beyond the need to hate something in order to justify their existence or look "moral" in front of others. I never trust the motivations of such people who play emotional games in order to big note themselves. The fair, the just, the correct action is to use the wealth gained by the use or sale of the art in order to compensate the victims of the artist, just as with any other invention or entertainment created by a person who has engaged in a grossly criminal action and harmed others.Considering the injustices which have abounded as a result of similar adversarial systems around the world, you're right that holding great faith in the legal results may be misplaced. Harris still has the right of appeal, does he not? Much of what has been happening could be described as yet another trial by media. Though we can believe that Harris is guilty, what if he is not, and there was a miscarriage of justice? Happened enough times before that the wise should always maintain a little doubt for awhile yet.frangipani, perhaps you're unaware of how frequently the adversarial legal system of the UK gets it wrong. It's well known by now that the British legal system has a poor record overall. There have been many convictions of individuals for crimes they did not commit, while allowing the real guilty individuals to escape the consequences of their crimes as another person is wrongly convicted in their stead. This happens far too often in all of the nations sharing the Commonwealth style legal system.

Is it a lie not to recall being some particular place like Cambridge which might not stand out as especially important to a remembered occasion to a man who was travelling all over the countryside to different shows? The whole Cambridge thing was just another bad part of the whole trial by media. It could also be argued that those accusing Rolf Harris of sexual abuse for just touching a lot may be applying the current version of politically correct behaviour as the standard against what was considered not particularly worthy of comment thirty years ago. In the UK, there's a media frenzy to portray numerous easy target celebrities of the BBC as suspect paedophiles ever since the Jimmy Saville scandal became public. Public witch hunts have a habit of finding witches even when none exist.Yes, the CO2 levels in the atmosphere increased. Blaming humans for all that increase, or implying that humans are solely responsible for the increase isn't in keeping with known evidence. Most CO2 emissions adding to the atmosphere are from natural sources. Around thirty times as much CO2 comes from nature than does from humans. Hubris to believe arrogantly that humans can outdo nature.No, Gary, not 97%.

That survey of climate scientists you're incidentally referring to, was only a cherrypicking game. Out of 3146 scientists who responded to the survey, Doran and Zimmerman picked only 79 scientists (thus limiting the actual representation to only those who already likely agreed with what Doran Zimmerman were looking for). So, despite that 77 of those 79 agreed with AGW alarmism, Doran Zimmerman unscientifically failed to report the views of the thousands of other scientists.Nuclear? No way. Haven't the lessons from Fukushima and Chernobyl and all the other accidents sunk in yet?

Nuclear is also not cost effective; every nuclear power station has to be government subsidized. They cost ten times more to operate than coal fired power stations do. Nuclear is the most polluting industry on the planet. Poisoning the environment with radioactive toxins with a half-life of centuries and thousands of years. The true reason for maintaining nuclear power stations is a masquerade of publicly acceptable deterrence, because any nation with a nuclear power station can rather rapidly progress to manufacturing nuclear weapons yet can continue to pretend that "their" nuclear programs are entirely for peaceful purposes."having some effect"? Like maybe an almost insignificant effect. Climate scientists don't agree on that degree of influence there could be. It's all theory.

Alpo, you're trying to conflate "some effect" with massive catastrophe and only that. That's similar misrepresentation AGW alarmists continue to use when citing the Doran and Zimmerman survey results.Hal9000
In regards to the essay by Naomi Oreskes:

Benny Peiser tried replicating what Oreskes claimed in her essay, but found only 1/3rd of the papers endorsed the AGW catastrophic warming view and only 1% did so explicitly.

Klaus-Martin Schulte used the same database and search terms as Oreskes to examine papers published from 2004 to February 2007 and found fewer than half endorsed AGW catastrophic warming view, and only 7% did so explicitly.

In regards to this claim (...plus every academy of science on the planet)
The only list that I have seen circulated with the names of scientific organisations supporting the AGW catastrophic warming view has just 12 nations on it. That is very obviously NOT all of the scientific organisations on the planet.


Theos, what of those who call other people "deniers" or "denialists" or other semi-religious insults? What of those who claim there's a "consensus" regardless of how frequently that claim is soundly refuted?

The only people that I know who are rejecting basic science are those who disregard any peer-reviewed papers which disagree with "pet" theory. I've provided information on where to find over a thousand peer-reviewed scientific papers countering the AGW catastrophe claims.Alpo, don't just use rhetoric, cite facts please. You haven't supported the claims of this mythical "consensus" one bit.

The IPCC won't commit to a best estimate of climate sensitivity as there is no consensus between participants: they admit this fact, so why don't you know about it? The essay by Oreskes was refuted by Peiser and Schulte; they found while using the same methods and same database as Oreskes that less than half the papers supported this AGW "blame humans, doom is coming" claims, and fewer than 7% explicitly supported it. So no evidence of "consensus" there either. Doran and Zimmerman never bothered with a scientific survey but cherrypicked 79 scientists out of thousands, then falsely claimed that because 77 of those 79 agreed with what was actually a vague question, that this represented 97% support although it did no such thing. Anderegg, a student at Stanford, carried on in the same unethical game, cherrypicking 200 scientists out of tens of thousands of climate scientists, which is like preselecting your voters before the election because they support your party already. Cook, a blogger, made claims of 97% too, but his paper was refuted by Legatesand 3 co-authors who reviewed the same papers as Cook did, finding that Cook had inflated the statistical support massively (it wasz only 0.3% not the 97% that "Cook et al" claimed).

Time to adapt to the facts instead of ignoring them all the time. There is no consensus, and never has been. The argument of "popularity" in inherently fallacious anyway. Real science doesn't work that way, only propagandists use claims like "consensus", or "majority view".

Alpo, all you did was cite the same papers that were already refuted. Every single paper you mentioned in your comment was refuted already, and I shouldn't need to repeat myself repeating the names of those which refuted those papers you cited. 
You seem to believe that just repetition will make them not be refuted.

For anyone else, to be brief. see my comment of 02 Jul 2014 6:12:26pm

Alpo, don't just repeat papers that were already refuted. Bring something new that hasn't yet been mentioned. It's far more interesting for debate. Your claims of "consensus" have been thoroughly debunked. Many times over.Then, by that rationale, Dr Who, you are the "denier" since despite all scientific evidence against the claims of AGW catastrophic warming, all the peer-reviewed papers refuting claims of "consensus", all the evidence regarding CO2 emissions showing that nature emits 30x more than humans, all the evidence of crooked unethical practices such as occurred at the University of East Anglia, despite the failure of 95% of the simulations totally and that none of the models predicted the so-called "pause", you continue to misrepresent both the sceptics position and the entire debate.Malcolm, you're being flat-out rude and misrepresenting the entire debate. Sceptics of the AGW catastrophic narrative aren't doubting or denying that the climate changes. Stop spouting that propaganda line claiming that they do. Everyone is well aware that the climate has always changed, and always will. Earth has gone through warmer periods than the present, many times over. Earth has gone through ice ages and warming periods at least thirty thousand times over the past sixty-plus million years.

It also takes far less time for a major volcanic eruption to release more CO2 than humans have emitted in all of recorded history. A single undersea vent can release more CO2 every minute than a coal-fired power station can release in two centuries. Nature beats humanity for CO2 emissions without any difficulty at all.Among that increase in CO2, almost of all of it was, and is, from natural sources. Between 192 gigatonnes to 220 gigatonnes, yearly emitted by natural sources. By comparison, CO2 from humans is only 6 to 8 gigatonnes yearly. The variability of nature's addition to total CO2 is several times greater than from humans as well. One large volcanic eruption, and good old nature can add more CO2 than humans can do with their entire output since recorded history.You're citing an achievement carried out a couple of generations ago as if that was applicable today. NASA couldn't replace the space shuttle with anything modern for decades. Right now, NASA needs to beg for piggyback rides from the Russians to get anyone up to space. NASA has turned more political than scientific, and it shows in all the continual failings and scandals.I've provided links on this issue on prior occasions only to discover that my comments including those links regarding the matter don't appear. I've not seen others' comments going into those details either.

The IPCC claims to speak for 2,500 scientists, but only lists 41 authors and editors for relevant chapter of their 5th Report. What of the other experts? What of their views?

Some of the scientists listed by the IPCC as supporting their report's conclusions came out publicly and contradicted the IPCC, protesting even that they were misrepresented.

Oreskes' essay for the journal 'Science' was refuted by scores of scientists citing their own papers published in peer-reviewed journals that directly contradict the claims of AGW cataclysm. Peiser attempted to replicate Oreskes? findings, and found misrepresentation; only one-third of the papers endorsed the AGW cataclysmic view and only 1% did so explicitly. Schulte used the same database and search terms as Oreskes to examine papers published from 2004 to February 2007 and found fewer than half endorsed AGW alarmist view, and only 7% did so explicitly.

Doran and Zimmerman's survey conclusions misrepresented the result of the response and didn't ask the correct relevant questions. The survey was sent to tens of thousands of climate scientists, but only 3,146 responded. They then cherry-picked 79 of the 3,146, claiming that because 77 of those 79 agreed with the statement, that it represented 97% agreement. That's like having an election but only allowing those voters who already agree with you to be able to take part.

"Anderegg et al" cherrypicked 200 out of thousands of climate scientists. That's not evidence of "consensus" either, it's misrepresentation.

The "Cook et al" paper was refuted by David R Legates (former director of the University of Delaware's Center for Climatic Research) along with 3 co-authors. Legates and his co-authors found that only 0.3% not the 97% which "Cook et al" alleged, supported the AGW cataclysmic view. Many climate scientists also later protested that Cook ignored or misrepresented their work.

staiga, you're not describing the "Cook et al" paper correctly at all. Yes, it was a "view", that's what you get from asking a question and getting an answer, someone's view.

Unfortunately, Cook's paper was thoroughly debunked by Legates, and many scientists criticized the Cook paper for including them among those whose papers endorse the alarmist view, when in truth their papers contradicted the AGW alarmist claims.

You're incorrect about the Doran and Zimmerman survey. It was sent to over 10,000 climate scientists. Only 3,146 responded. Of those 3,146, Doran and Zimmerman misrepresented the overall view by cherrypicking only 79 of those 3,146, then from that 79 stated that 77 "agreed that global temperatures have risen since the 1800s, and that humans are a contributing factor". That's extremely unscientific, and statisticians can explain to you why, but it should be clear as to the problem there to most people. The question was vague, the answer vague, as it does not address to what extent humans contribute to global warming nor does it endorse the alarmist claims of doom and gloom.

Oreskes papers 'was' widely accepted, it was also quickly debunked. Naomi Oreskes wrote an essay for the journal 'Science' alleging that (based on a keyword search of 928 papers) that 75% supported the cataclysmic global warming view. Oreskes? claim was immediately debunked by scores of scientists pointing to their own papers published in peer-reviewed journals that directly contradict the claim of man-made global warming. Benny Peiser attempted to replicate Oreskes? findings and found only one-third of the papers endorsed the alarmist view and only 1% did so explicitly. In 2008, Klaus-Martin Schulte used the same database and search terms as Oreskes to examine papers published from 2004 to February 2007 and found fewer than half endorsed AGW alarmist view, and only 7% did so explicitly. Either way, Oreskes' essay conclusions have been thoroughly debunked.

You're welcome to cite a list of scientific organisations, but apparently there are going to be problems with that list; 1) the list that I've seen most frequently cited by alarmists only includes 12 nations which certainly is a minority compared to the rest of the planet; 2) some organisations leaders have expressed views not shared by the majority of the same organisations members. For example, a mere 39.5% of 1,854 American Meteorological Society members who responded to a survey in 2012 said man-made global warming is dangerous.

Dennis Bray and Hans von Storch published a paper in 2010. They found that most climate scientists disagree with the alleged consensus on various key issues, such as the reliability of climate data and computer models. They also do not believe climate processes like cloud formation and precipitation are sufficiently understood to enable accurate predictions of future climate change.I'm well aware of John Cook, an Australia-based blogger, and that some of his friends claimed to have reviewed abstracts of peer-reviewed papers published from 1991 to 2011, publishing his findings in 'Environmental Research Letters'. Cook claimed that "97%" of those papers explicitly (or implicitly) suggest that human activity is responsible for 'some' warming.

Funny how that 97 magic number is so frequently repeated. It's almost suspicious like a confirmation bias keeps seeping in.

David R Legates (former director of the University of Delaware's Center for Climatic Research) along with 3 co-authors went over Cook's paper, reviewing all of the same papers that Cook cited. They found that only 0.3% of those actually endorsed the AGW alarmist view. On top of this failing, many scientists who were included as endorsing the alarmist view later refuted Cook's claims, saying that they were misrepresented by "Cook et al".All life on Earth is carbon-based. You're misrepresenting what the sceptics are saying, and have said.

The evidence for AGW hasn't increased, it's decreased, which is why the IPCC has repeatedly lowered their estimates for the evidence for cataclysmic warming in the predictive models, admitted that it hasn't warmed as much as predicted, tried to dismiss the lack of atmospheric warming by claiming the heat is "hiding" in the deep oceans (which would actually make seismic sources more likely for where that heat is coming from). They also try to dismiss the importance of the failed models (95% failed altogether to predict accurately, none predicted the "pause" which is still pausing). The rhetoric and increasing use of insults such as "climate denier" reveals desperation. Saying "climate denier" also misrepresents what the sceptics are saying because nobody is denying the climate changes, the sceptics are expressing doubts about the alleged "causes".

Try to stick with what people are saying instead of using BS misrepresentations, Ad Hominem, Strawman arguments, and all the rest of that baloney.The IPCC continually, in every report has claimed the "evidence" for their position has increased, and just as repeatedly it's been found within their own reports that such evidence is lacking yet they will state it anyway in the conclusions and in their PR. This behaviour by the IPCC is the same as a politically oriented bureaucracy, not that of a scientific organisation, and it goes hand in hand with the leadership which also is always politically appointed. They require continued funding and must therefore provide "reason" for their existence, doing so without regard for the reality.

Your use of "denialist" is in the same manner as calling a non-believer a heretic or infidel, yet it's also misrepresenting the actual views of those who are sceptics. Nobody is denying that the climate changes. Of course it does; it's changed thousands of times before with no need for human influences whatsoever. The argument is not about "denial" of this fact, the argument is about to what degree humans should be credited with warming over the past century or so."May 2014 was the hottest May"

Perhaps you should research the scandalous temperature adjustments story that continues to gather more attention and debate. For many years in the USA, July 1936 was known as the hottest month according to the NOAA. In 2012, the NOAA claimed that July 2102 was the hottest month, suddenly they now state July 1936 was the hottest month again. USHCN temperature maps have "zombie" stations, and statistical errors abound. Frequently, two stations reports are conflated together to create a virtual record for a station that hasn't been reporting or no longer exists, but this introduces bad data. NOAA has been changing the data, in most cases adjusting it higher for later data, adjusting lower for earlier data; doing so creates an illusion of warming that isn't supported by the raw data. This constant change from year to year of what is or is not the hottest month on record is not only unprofessional and embarrassing, it's BS. NASA has engaged in some unreasonable behaviour regarding temperatures worldwide, including those from Australian stations.Saying so don't make it so.

Please do some reading for yourself. In the IPCC's own 5th assessment report, there is less evidence for AGW than they claim is there in the conclusions. A great many other scientists have been clear on this, many people have pointed this fact out, many sceptics are scientists, yet people such as you repeatedly ignore 'anything' that contradicts a paradigm that you've refused to shift from.I can cite 1300 peer-reviewed publications that refute the cataclysmic claims of the AGW alarmists. You'll find an extensive list on the popular technology website.

Just a word of advice, Dr Who, stop claiming victories which you haven't yet enjoyed, learn to accept evidence and shift paradigm with the new evidence. Sticking solidly to a position while refusing to even admit to the existence of evidence against that position is just the sort of response the Roman Catholic Church had all the way through the Middle Ages.I'm amazed how many of those who continually call for there to be "Less People" never go so far as to actually honour their proclaimed ideal themselves. They just want others to drop dead. Like little Hitlers and Stalins.

Calling for renewables is fine, but to desire other members of your species to die off doesn't strike some of these extremists as a more than a bit sociopathic?I've read that humans are 3,216 times more crazy about the fun of reproduction than rabbits are. Maybe the reason we need to breed so much when we can is because nature always brings the hammer down eventually. Humanity has been brought to bring of extinction at least twice in the past that we know of. Major civilisations have been wiped many times, with devastating drops in the population. Plagues successfully beat wars for the deathtoll competition. If the Yellowstone super-volcano erupts big time, it'll come very close to wiping out most life on Earth, and probably eliminate humanity from North America.

No need to call for a "culling", nature is a lot more ruthless. Look at Tohoku in Japan, the region is nearly empty of people now.I don't know MWD, are you one of the people who really knows why the planet's oceans have warmed, but not the atmosphere? The upper atmospheric temperatures have been dropping for around two decades, the lower atmosphere temperatures stopped rising in the mid to late 1990s. The only current evidence of "warming" is 2000 metres down in the deep oceans, closer to seismic heat sources. The melting of the Greenland icesheet was found to be due to seismic heat, and the Western Antarctica icesheet was melting due to seismic heat (the rest of Antarctica has been getting colder and the ice thickening there instead). About 96.3% of all CO2 added to the atmosphere yearly is from natural sources, so human contribution to the CO2 rise is overwhelmed by the natural contribution. While you're busy blaming CO2 for the "warming" (which isn't happening any more except in the deep oceans), can you explain why all of the other planets in the Solar System were warming at the same time as Earth was? What do you think they have in common besides spinning around and around a huge very hot object called the "Sun"? Are there coal burning power stations on all of the other planets, do you think? Maybe lots of people driving their fossil fuel burning cars on those other planets that were warming too? What could it be?

Facts sure are troubling to a fixed paradigm that continually refuses to admit to any possibility that the holder of a set of assumptions might've been conned. Good old cognitive dissonance comes to the rescue, you can go back to believing whatever your chosen "authorities" told you already and just dismiss those annoying bits of information that would require a "re-think". Less painful, just call the other side kindergarten insults like a well trained thoroughly indoctrinated believer. Those irritating infidels couldn't possibly be saying anything logical, since you have Holy Truth to live by.No, none of what I've said has ever been debunked, though I bet Dr Who you tell yourself that it was.

Magma moves. It doesn't just sit in one place. If it did, volcanoes would never erupt. So, of course seismic heat sources will vary in output. Far more rational to recognise that undersea seismic heat sources are going to warm the oceans 2000 metres down than to blame humans for "warming" that's not actually happening in the atmosphere. The upper atmosphere temperatures have been dropping for over two decades, other atmospheric temperatures stopped rising since 2003 and were already slowing since the mid-1990s.

No, it's not "circumstantial", it's a fact that all of the other planets showed warming. NASA confirms this.

You're now resorting to citing a horrifically outdated article from 28 years ago. My apologies, I prefer to keep up to date with current scientific knowledge, which concludes that 96.7% of CO2 emissions added to the atmosphere yearly are from natural sources. Humanity is estimated to contribute around 6 gigatonnes of CO2 each year, natural sources account for 190-225 gigatonnes per year. Also, the natural variability of Earth?s carbon cycle is 6 to 7 times as large as current anthropogenic CO2 emissions. Sure humans contribute a lot of CO2, but nature adds many times more. Do the math. Going by the ice core data, which revealed that rises in CO2 follow after rises in temperature (about 200-1000 years later), the logical implication is that most of the CO2 rise is following on from the Medieval Warm Period which ended a few hundred years ago (lovely time for weather, crops grew well with all that warmth in places where they can't grow now because it's too cold).The planets warming is an old chestnut because it happens to be true. Nothing "anomalous" about it, since the Sun is the main source of heat and light around.
 Claim victories all you like, you haven't enjoyed any.Dr Who, like I said, do the math.

It's rather simple, easy enough for a kid to understand. Humans can only be credited with around six gigatonnes of CO2 emissions every year, while nature adds around two hundred gigatonnes. So, blaming humans for "most" of the CO2 rise is just an outrageous lie.

"positive feedback" is only silly spin to play down the evidence, the fact is that ice core data shows CO2 rises always happen long after the temperature rises. Water vapour is the most influential greenhouse gas on this planet, deal with it.

The MWP was certainly warm enough, and fits the pattern. Every rise in CO2 followed centuries after the warming, with the MWP being centuries ago, and the rise in CO2 occurring during the past two centuries being verifiable as nearly all from natural sources (do the math, 200 beats 6. mate), the logical possibility is that the current increases in atmospheric CO2 are due to a factor related that the MWP after-effects. Scientists don't yet know what that could be, but the pattern remains very clear and it's ridiculous to deny it just because it doesn't fit the propaganda line you've been fed.Many peer-reviewed papers are available to show that the AGW alarmists are wrong, those papers were written by professionals. 30,000 scientists have signed the Petition Project, and at least a thousand peer-reviewed papers contradict the AGW propagandistic claims. You apparently prefer not to bother with anything "sceptical" because you've gotten stuck with a "faith" and disregard any evidence that contradicts that faith.Gary, downplaying the influence of the Sun and it's variability is shocking to me. Like they used to say about the effect of the USA economy upon Australia's economy, when the USA sneezes, Australia gets pneumonia. The Sun is the major influence on Earth's climate, and always will be as long as it's our main source of heat and light. Our bright shining orb in the sky is not unvarying, and scientists don't live in such a paradigm of innocently believing we know everything, or already have known everything, only amateurs say such crazy things. The Sun has other cycles, and we continue to learn of them. It's currently approaching the point of one of those other cycles which resulted in a little Ice Age only two centuries ago. A cycle that wasn't known of when AGW theorists first began shouting about a coming apocalypse through warming back in the 1980s. Those scientists back then weren't aware that the Sun's variation was greater than they planned for, neither were those lauded climate simulations that the IPCC shouted about being so wondrous predictors taking the Sun's influence into account. Like you, they ignored the factor of the biggest heat source around, pretending that they knew "everything" already. As events have since proved, they knew FA about the climate, and couldn't predict much at all, with 95% of the models being total failures and none of the models predicting the so-called "pause". Ah, hubris. Sorry, Gary, we don't have all the numbers down pat yet, and it's a silly childish myth that everything is accounted for. I call it BS.

Cosmic rays are interesting to bring up, because ten years ago it wasn't known about the significant influence that cosmic rays have on cloud formation. The idea was dismissed, just as you're doing. I don't live in the past, but I also don't forget the mistakes of that past. I continue to learn, and adapt my thinking when I learn new things. For example, we now know that cosmic rays DO play a very significant role in climate, and that such a role was also completely ignored by the IPCC's climate models. How many other factors did some fool claimed didn't matter, but really, truly did. They were claiming back then, just like you repeat with the same foolish story, that everything has been experimentally proven and all effects accounted for. No, Gary, they weren't then, and likely aren't now either.

It may interest you to know that the "internet" is how most scientists communicate their research data, and many academic institutions were doing so well before there was a WWW around. It's fascinating history. The internet has been around for decades, Gary. Superseding newspapers and TV as the major source of news, it was access to the WWW which has helped bring light and truth bypassing the censorship of national governments.Is there a lack of literacy around here.

"approaching" is clearly not here yet.

Go back, read the comment again.

No, solar variance was NOT taken into account. They didn't even include the Sun as a factor in all of the models.You should double-check the validity of the source for your attempted refutation. NASA and NOAA were both exposed recently manipulating temperature data to overstate the extent of the 20th century "warming" by funny games with mathematics. When the raw data is used, there is almost no evidence of any significant global warming and some evidence of global cooling more recently again. NASA and NOAA had been downward "adjusting" earlier temperatures automatically, which would make later temperatures appear higher by comparison.

Always look for the "raw data", the empirical evidence, abandon faith in dodgy graph charts that are made by those proven to be habitually incapable of 'not' fudging the numbers to fit their favoured theory.

Of course, as the Climategate scandal showed, unethical pseudo-scientists abound, and such frauds are very reluctant to release the raw data because they know damn well that their claims are bunk.You got that from watching the Matrix, right?

Nah, I have to disagree, humans remain a species of complex multi-celled organisms. I like humans a lot, most of them are pretty cool when you get to know them well. Sadly, like every other creature on planet Earth, humans aren't able to survive extreme temperature variations such as Ice Ages without suffering a huge drop in population. Warm periods however have always been times of plentiful food, lighter fashions, as the Roman pictures can tell you. The Medieval Warm Period was a time of greater agricultural production too.

How many is too many? Still a huge amount of vast tracts of land where almost nobody lives or the population is very low. You can put the whole human race, every person on the planet, on Manhattan Island and have room to spare.Actually, regardless of how many times the silly lie is repeated, the issue is not "settled". It never was, and the "97%" lie began with a student's paper that wasn't particularly scientific, and was easily refuted, yet was waved around as a proclamation of truth by those wanted to use the lie for political purposes. Just like the Dodgy Dossier in that respect. Astonishing how often so many people fall for distortions and propaganda like that. Part of the reason, I guess, is that they're assuming that if the "line" is coming with the right thin veneer of paint (green, red, blue... whatever) it couldn't possibly be just propaganda. Put together a few like-minded "experts" in a new organisation, give that organisation a nice sounding name, and keep pretending that it's unbiased, and lots of gullible people will not only believe the lie, they'll defend those lies by attacking anyone and everyone who might bring the narrative into question.

There's always scientific debate, it never stops. When someone says it's "settled science", they're repeating propaganda like a well trained parrot. Real scientists question everything, that's how scientific knowledge is furthered. The Big Bang, Black Holes, how Gravity functions, how genes work, there are No Sacred Cows to a real scientist.To say something requires no further debate is the sort of words spouted by politicians pushing a story when the evidence is starting to come out and unravel their lies. Instead of properly dealing with the truth, they'll repeat the lie louder, and call the other side names. Lots of mud throwing goes on.

The science is not "settled", there's no "consensus", and never was. Next time someone tells you that there's a consensus, you'll hopefully choose to take some salt with their BS.I believe that it's you, Theos, who is seriously lacking research on the subject, perhaps relying too much on the same sources that have been exposed as getting the science continually wrong in the past.

Scientists aren't angels, they certainly aren't any less prone to unethical, dishonest, irrational behaviour than humans generally are. I don't wear rose tinted glasses while seeing a scientist and think "Hey, that person would never ever lie or be a crook" because such thinking is childish. Children grow up, and one of the realisations that they come to, is that adults aren't particularly more or less honest than themselves. Your silly dismissal by claiming a "conspiracy of thousands" is just another one of those unfortunately common arguments that don't refute a thing, nor are supported by anything, it's just someone trying to play strawman games because they can't accept any facts that contradict their prior assumptions. By the way, it's plainly delusional to believe that conspiracies don't occur; read history, read the laws regarding conspiracy, read about organised crime groups, intelligence agencies, lobby groups, ideologically-driven protest groups, the huge number of scientific frauds exposed (increasingly, unfortunately) that involved large numbers of scientists, read about the dodgy "science" sponsored by the tobacco lobby or any big corporation or government. This is not a fluffy world filled with pink cotton candy and cute teddy bears, nasty unethical people will lie to you, and they will use their positions of influence to take advantage whenever they can.

No, the shape of our planet is not actually spherical, the southern hemisphere swells out a bit. You should also read more about "heavy water" and it's variations. I strongly suggest that you search out Sheldrake's "The Science Delusion", it's quite enlightening how many assumptions are accepted without being supported by solid research in science. Yes, real scientists DO question everything, because if they didn't, we'd still be stuck with steam engines and Lord Kelvin's idea that the Sun is only 100 million years old.

Back on topic, AGW and the blaming of CO2 are among those subjects which are most definitely NOT "settled science". You appear to believe that the constant refrain of it being "settled" is going to make it so, but that's a propaganda technique. Like Hitler's "Big Lie". Tell it enough times, people may start to abandon commonsense and doubts, begin to believe the BS anyway.I prefer to lay blame on the real problems, not the hyped-up imaginary ones shouted about everywhere by the "We Hate CO2" gang. The world's climate has always changed, it always will, and it never needed any humans to make that happen.

Global warming propaganda is just a distraction from the real things that endanger humanity and threaten the ecology. Rather than putting much effort against hormone-mimics and other toxic chemicals, or admit that nuclear power stations are a dangerous mistake to ever build in the first place, the well-funded agenda-based pseudo-science and compromised "environmental" organisations jump on the bandwagon with the bankrupt governments to call for more taxation on something else instead. Like CO2. Never mind the scientifically verified facts of the matter, such as nearly all of the CO2 rise during the past century was from Natural Sources. When the fraud is exposed, the well-funded "green" sleeved dodgy bloggers and the rest of the PR spin machine will ride to the rescue, lying and downplaying the significance of the Climategate scandal, intentional biasing of models, manipulation of temperature data by NASA and NOAA.

It sometimes seems that not enough people have yet awoken to the realisation that the really big, wealthier environmental lobby groups have been compromised by deep corporate pockets. Nor do they comprehend that governments and corporations will only fund "research" that suits their purposes, they don't care at all about the environment, it's all about money and power.It's been estimated, and you can easily verify the fact, that natural emissions of CO2 are between 20 to 40 times more than what humanity produces. Generally considered to be around 3.7%. I'm not confusing anything, just pointing out one of those little facts that certain people like to brush under the carpet, pretend doesn't exist.

Human burning of fossil fuels is absolutely tiny as a source of CO2 by comparison to what a single major volcanic eruption can do. One such eruption can easily release more CO2 that humans have been able to release in all of recorded history.

There's been more rapid climate change in the past, according to ice core data. It's been a lot hotter too. By as much as 6 degrees Celsius hotter.

You're perhaps unaware of these inconvenient facts because some folks like to shout down anyone who mentions them.You're implying that there's a chemical distinction that nature will use to pick and choose molecules of CO2. Sorry, such a thing defies reality, and so regardless of the source CO2 is absorbed at the same rate. Doesn't matter if it's from a human, a cow, a dog, or a penguin. I already mentioned that CO2 is increasing, I also mentioned the fact that most of the added CO2 is from Natural Sources! To pretend that human CO2 has magical properties making it more influential is just a load of baloney.

Mount St Helen's famed eruption a couple of decades ago cooled global temperatures by 2 degrees C. Krakatoa also cooled the world dramatically. You recall those in history books and in the news (if you're old enough). A single typical undersea vent can release more CO2 every minute than a coal-fired power station releases in 200 years. Maybe you think volcanoes are tiny things that don't have much effect on climate, while farting cows somehow do a lot more. You do realise that wonderful Nature can overwhelm every thing that humans do, has smashed whole civilisations many times in the past, even brought the human race close to extinction at least twice. I bet those guys at Fukushima and the real estate developers in Tohoku thought that Nature was a wimpy little thing they could just ignore too. Amazing how much hubris some people have these days, believing that humans are like gods able to change global climate and tell volcanoes, the Sun, and other planets what to do.

Yes, there have been more rapid climate changes in the past. Your statement about the ice cores is outdated, certainly not keeping up with what's been known since 2009. Ice ages have come crashing down in just months according to recent studies of the past few years. New Zealand and Australia's native flora and fauna reveal clues of even more rapid climatic change in the Southern Hemisphere. We're due for another Maunder Minimum or Daunton Minimum according to the Solar Cycles, which explains the cooling atmospheric temperatures since 2003. NOAA got exposed recently playing funny games with their temperature statistics, carrying on with a bit of creative mathematics to constantly reduce past temperature measurements in order to provide an illusion of rapid rise that wasn't there in the empirical data.

I hope the following facts will relieve you of such ignorance.

Humanity accounts for 5-6 Gt of CO2 emissions per year. Nature accounts for account for 190-225 Gt per year. Do the math.

You've been lied to. Accept it, move on.

Next issue, 1C increase is controversial. Recently NOAA and NASA were both exposed as playing funny games with the numbers, with a bit of creative accounting they were reducing the previous temperatures to make more recent temperatures appear to have risen more rapidly by comparison. Nevertheless, the atmospheric warming began to slow from the mid-1990s, and stopped rising almost altogether from 2003. The upper atmosphere temperatures have been going down since at least the 1980s. Ocean temperatures have only shown a slight increase in the deep ocean, 2km under the surface, closer to where seismic heat sources are more likely the culprit as was discovered for Greenland and Antarctica too (where seismic heat sources were found to be responsible for the melting of some icesheets).No they don't, you're simply repeating ignorant nonsense from one of those bloggers that keep trying to defend the "global warming" chicken little rubbish even after it gets debunked repeated. Nearly all of the CO2 increase has been from natural sources. Humans can't produce enough to beat nature. One major volcanic eruption can release more CO2 than humans could do in thousands of years.

Notice the hype is always about human CO2 emissions in tonnes, but never in actual percentage comparisons versus natural sources? The alarmists gang are lying.I'd love to see some evidence of that claim that every scientific body on the planet supports the main premise that you're defending, Gary, but you know that story isn't true. 12 nations are on that often repeated list that alarmists keep going on about, just 12. The list of scientific organisations on that list is also far from being the "majority" in those 12 nations as well. Those "scientists" at East Anglia University weren't exactly "objective", though they were hard-working for the Great Cause of lying about the data and the lack of evidence for their pet theories. I don't see how trying to censor opposing evidence and attack other scientists who were sceptical of the whole "Blame CO2" scenario could be called "objective".Theos, I see that when you can't refute the facts that I've already stated, you return to those old mainstays of internet argument, emotional accusations, it must be a "conspiracy" (as if such events as crooks conspiring together never, ever happens!), and the gloriously child-like insult "Denialist". Which, lastly seems way too similar in usage to religious terms of insult like infidel, unbeliever, and heretic.

According to the Petition Project, over 30,000 scientists agree that there is no convincing scientific evidence that human release of carbon dioxide, methane, or other greenhouse gases is causing or will, in the foreseeable future, cause catastrophic heating of the Earth?s atmosphere and disruption of the Earth?s climate.

There's a fascinating article in 'Nature' published earlier this year (2014), titled "Modelling the Effects of Subjective and Objective Decision Making in Scientific Peer Review" which goes into detail about how scientists will converge on false conclusions, summarizing research on publication bias, careerism, data fabrication, and fraud. You may recall the Climategate scandal, but scientific fraud has become increasingly common. It's rarely only one lone scientist, there's nearly always a group, and group-think is a big part of what occurs. Group think is another way of saying that they "conspired" together, believing they were "right". You don't need big numbers to seem like there are big numbers either; the IPCC lists only 41 authors and editors of the relevant chapter of the Fifth Assessment Report regarding "anthropogenic and natural radiative forcing" yet falsely claims that their views represent those of thousands of scientists - some of whom publicly stated that they don't support the IPCC's main premise, and yet despite protesting, were listed by the IPCC as among those supporting the IPCC reports' conclusions. Every single research paper and poll ever conducted to determine the 'consensus,' has been shown to have serious errors, and the numbers in fact fall nowhere near the claims made. Surveys of meteorologists repeatedly find a majority oppose the alleged consensus. I know of at least 1300 peer-reviewed papers that contradict AGW premise blaming humans as the major influence for global warming. There is no scientific consensus on global warming.Worse, it wasn't CO2 that caused it. According to the ice cores, every rise in CO2 is centuries AFTER the rise in temperature. The AGW theory mob had this pet theory which keeps getting debunked by new evidence, so they deny the evidence, call people names like "Denier" and so on. They really want to hang on to their old outdated ideas. New facts just get in the way.Massive de-population sounds like a call for mass slaughter. Humans are capable of living with the rest of the environment, they just don't usually plan cities that way these days.

Nations that have low population growth, or declining population, are becoming economically worse off. Their capability to support the elderly is eroding under the financial strain as the proportion of young people of working age is reduced by comparison. The financial system globally has been in crisis for years now, but it's the nations with the lowest birth rates that are having the most difficulty avoiding stagnant economic growth.When do you think it will be "full"?

Another few decades, we'll have the technology to go elsewhere as well. I keep recalling an old saying about the future "In the future the problem will not be too many people, but too few". It's been awhile since the last super nasty plague swept the world, and we've experienced nothing like the sort of deathtolls that have devastated major empires in the past couple of millennia. We may just blow ourselves up in another big war; humans have a habit of getting into fights a lot, even over silly issues that have zero to do with resources or land. Nature may kill off most of the world ecology too, as wonderful nature has done many times in the past; supervolcanoes, massive solar storms, the geomagnetic field, a new Ice Age slamming down, asteroids turning the Earth into a cosmic shooting gallery, or a star going supernova a little too close to our region.Let's not kid ourselves with thinking humans can do much to overwhelm nature either; climate change is rather run of the mill normal. It's always been changing, done so many times in recorded history, and a single major volcanic eruption can put out more CO2 than humans could ever do.

Better urban planning would help more. Cities in Australia are usually a hopeless mess as nobody can agree what to do for fixing them.

Roads in the countryside will always be poorly maintained, because the nation is huge in land and small in population.I don't know of many politicians in a senior position who aren't forced into compromises by the situation. They go into office with high ideals perhaps, which nearly always need to be modified once they get there."The earth has absorbed more heat in the last decade than ever"

Gary, that's nonsensical and simply isn't true.

The Earth has been far warmer than the present, many times over in fact. Also, those buoys aren't exactly verification when the heating of deep oceans is apparently; 1) very slight at 2000 metres depth, not much at all on the surface; 2) there are an estimated three million undersea volcanoes and many other undersea seismic heat sources which could also be the reason; 3) basic physics, hot water goes up, not down, and certainly doesn't "hide" in oceans where it can scarcely be detected regardless of what the IPCC wants to pretend.

The melting of "some" icesheets in Greenland and Antarctica has already been discovered to be a result of underwater seismic heat sources. Blaming humans for volcanoes is getting silly, isn't it? Besides, Antarctica's ice has been growing elsewhere over most of the continent.

You can't do much about climate change anyway, it's happened thirty thousand times already since those big dinosaurs got whacked out of existence by a giant rock sixty-plus million years ago. Not a car or coal-fired power station around, and still climate changes. It always has, always will. It's done it faster, colder, hotter, and quite violently. Compared to the current rate, it's been a lot worse. The drama may be fun, but the reality is that fear of global warming is misplaced. There are worse problems to worry about.The IPCC "claims" to speak for the views of 2,500 scientists, so immediately they're certainly not representing the views of the other ten million (or so) scientists on this particular planet. The IPCC lists only 41 authors and editors of the relevant chapter of the Fifth Assessment Report addressing ?anthropogenic and natural radiative forcing.? What about the views of other experts? Oh, not all of the rest of the 2,500 actually agree with the IPCC's agenda-based pseudo-science or the alarmist view of AGW, but like the IPCC political bureaucracy has done before, regardless of when scientists that are listed among the contributors come out publicly to say they want no part of it, the IPCC continues to list those scientists as contributors supporting the IPCC view. The lie about the views of many scientists, including their listed "contributors", in other words the IPCC is not a scientific organisation at all, it's as political as any lobby group or think tank.

So far, the IPCC's cited climate models have an awful poor track record of predicting anything. 95% of the models got it utterly wrong, and none predicted the lack of atmospheric warming since the mid-1990s. The IPCC tries to claim that the heat is "hiding" in the oceans, which they have little evidence for, and they absolutely have no evidence to support the claim that human sources are responsible for what slight increase of heat was detected 2000 metres under the surface; most probable is that undersea seismic sources are where that heat is coming from. In Antarctica, most of the ice is thickening, it's getting colder, but although a bunch of fools wanted to falsely claim that humans are responsible for the melting of some icesheets, it's been discovered the actual cause was undersea seismic heat sources. Same again for Greenland, humans blamed for melting, but seismic activity was discovered to be the real source.

I would trust the IPCC about as far as I would any other political organisation; not much at all. Their pretence of being somehow "scientific" isn't well supported, and they are among the least credible prophets of doom around by their own record of constant of failure. Their models fail, they lie about the models afterwards, and mislead in the conclusions of their own reports about what the scientists in those reports say. They lie again about the views of the majority of scientists, and they play games of PR and Spin instead of sticking with solidly researched facts.It has all the features of a political issue putting the ideology before the science, rather than putting the science first.

That's the problem. Arguing on faith to claim that it's settled, or there's a consensus, or any other pretence that the majority of scientists already support the basic premise of blaming humans for most of climate change is where the whole story goes off the rails. When the problems with the climate activists claims are pointed out, climate activists scream insults at them without regard for what the facts may be. One of the silly accusations being the dumb idea that everyone who is sceptical of this "Blame Humans For All Evils" routine must be working for the fossil fuel industry. You wouldn't be guilty of making such claims, would you?Let's start with correcting a few of the errors in your previous comment, Gary.

1) There's a list of scientific organisations going around, oft-cited by AGW theory supporters, which they "claim" represents the view of all the scientific organisations on this little spinning globe. I've gone over that list in detail, and it's in the details where the "claim" of the AGW folks about the list falls apart. Only twelve (12) nations are represented. That's not a big number, it's a tiny minority of the world's total number of scientific organisations, and many major respectable institutions aren't even listed just for Europe alone.

2) Most scientific organisations on this planet are divided on the issue, there's no unanimity. There's certainly no "consensus", because in the opinion of the millions of scientists on this planet, the evidence is definitely 'not' conclusive. You're not stating "fact", Gary, you're just repeating a propagandised misrepresentation based on your "faith" that those who choose to believe as sources are sticking strictly to the truth. 

3) Have you examined the sources of the claims of "consensus", whether they be 75%, 97%, or whatever? There was a 2004 opinion essay published in 'Science' magazine by Naomi Oreskes, a science historian. She claimed to have examined abstracts of 928 articles published in scientific journals between 1993 and 2003. Oreskes?s definition of consensus covered ?man-made? influences but left out ?dangerous? ? and excluded scores of articles by prominent scientists such as Richard Lindzen, John Christy, Sherwood Idso and Patrick Michaels, who are openly sceptical of the whole "Blame It ALL On Humans" AGW theory. A later study published in 'Nature' noted that she failed to address that abstracts of academic papers often contain claims that aren?t substantiated in the papers. Another article (published in 2009 in Eos: Transactions of the American Geophysical Union) by Maggie Kendall Zimmerman, a student at the University of Illinois, and her master?s thesis adviser Peter Doran. It reported the results of a two-question online survey, of which only 79 scientists "selected" out of thousands. That's such a minuscule number in proportion as to be statistically unsupportable as representative of overall scientific opinion, worse, they were "selected" out of over 3,000 who responded, so the bias is Right There Up and Obvious. Of those 79 scientists who responded, 77 agreed "that global temperatures have risen, and that humans are a significant contributing factor" but nothing in the survey dealt with anything about the 'degree' of agreement, how much that contributing factor might be, nor what the factor what might be due to in specifics (so not a thing mentioned about CO2). They also failed to include solar scientists, space scientists, cosmologists, physicists, meteorologists or ast1) You're simply repeating the same fraud without regard to the facts already cited. Your narrative of "majority" of experts, and "majority" of scientific organisations was already debunked, you just refused to accept the refutation in detail are only reciting propaganda again.
2) There's not even close to "consensus", whenever people like make that unsupported claim and it's shot down, you just ignore reality.
3) There absolutely is NOT a "90% consensus", it's an outright lie disseminated by alarmists without any regard to actual facts. You're misrepresenting what German scientists Dennis Bray and Hans von Storch actually reported in whole, you cherrypick and ignore the detailed reality of their conclusions; they found that MOST climate scientists disagree with the alleged consensus on various key issues, such as the reliability of climate data and computer models. They don't believe climate processes like cloud formation and precipitation have been understood well enough to enable accurate predictions. William R. Love Anderegg, a student, studying at Stanford University, used Google Scholar for his analysis then cherrypicked 200 scientists out of thousands just for their published views, so that's very poor statistical work with little credibility. There's estimated close to ten million scientists in the world. 200 does not a consensus make. Surveys of meteorologists repeatedly find a majority oppose or disagree with the alleged consensus. Only 39.5% of 1,854 American Meteorological Society members who responded to a survey in 2012 said man-made global warming is dangerous. Tens of thousands of scientists have signed the Petition Project and come out publicly criticising the AGW alarmists' hype and BS. The petition states that ?there is no convincing scientific evidence that human release of ? carbon dioxide, methane or other greenhouse gases is causing or will, in the foreseeable future, cause catastrophic heating of the Earth?s atmosphere and disruption of the Earth?s climate.? Last time I checked, the number was 31,000 scientists, so where's this "majority" of yours? Every single research paper and poll ever conducted to determine the 'consensus,' has been shown to have serious errors, and the numbers in fact fall nowhere near the claims made by alarmists pushing AGW without regard to the actual facts.Wow, so only 32.6% agreed? And, then by a bit of imagination you want to pretend that's a "majority"? Amazing. You should go into creative accounting, get into some real fraud with funny figures.

Besides, you're ignoring huge problems with the "Cook et al" study, in the way it was carried out and what the actual results were. That's why Cook's work was so quickly debunked by other experts. In the August 2013 'Science and Education', David R. Legates (former director of the University of Delaware's Center for Climatic Research) and three coauthors reviewed the same papers as Mr. Cook did. They found that ?only 41 papers ? 0.3% of all 11,944 abstracts or 1.0% of the 4,014 expressing an opinion, and not 97.1% ? had been found to endorse? the claim that human activity is causing most of the current warming. Craig Idso, Nicola Scafetta, Nir J. Shaviv and Nils-Axel Morner and other climate scientists protested that Mr. Cook ignored or misrepresented their work.

There goes "Cook et al", shot down in flames. Next!

Rigorous international surveys conducted by German scientists Dennis Bray and Hans von Storch ? most recently published in Environmental Science &amp; Policy in 2010 ? have found that most climate scientists disagree with the alleged consensus on various key issues, such as the reliability of climate data and computer models. They also do not believe climate processes like cloud formation and precipitation are sufficiently understood to enable accurate predictions of future climate change.1) Most CO2 is from natural sources, which also emit between 20 to 40 times as much as human sources do. Are you going to pretend that just because CO2 is from human sources that it has Magical Powers!?
2)CO2 is a Very Minor greenhouse gas. Water vapour has far more influence in Earth's atmosphere by a factor of a 100, and besides, Point-1 still stands; nearly all CO2 in the atmosphere is Natural.
3)Heat increases all those other things (precipitation, evaporation, convection), and most of the heat is from the SUN. You know, big glowy thing in the sky? It has more influence on the climate than anything humans can do. Then there's volcanic and other seismic activity, which is also a far greater source of heat than humanity. A single major volcanic eruption can release more CO2 than humans are capable of in our entire recorded history.

Please tell me that you're not disputing scientific reality by denying these things.Why exactly do you believe that CO2 emissions can be reduced in any major way by humans when more than 95% of CO2 being added to the atmosphere is from natural sources? Blaming CO2 is ridiculous, going so far as to pretend that humans are responsible for most of the CO2 rise is just outrageous lying.

The ETS is just a scam, always has been.The IPPC has a bad habit of making "predictions" which never come true. Their track record as Great Prophets of Doom is abysmal. The "global warming" stopped happening in the mid-1990s, but a bunch of unethical "scientists" who forgot about scientific ethics decided to lie about that for awhile, going so far as to play games of censorship, using their influence to manipulate peer-review. The whitewashing of Climategate may have been fun, but it's not convincing; go ahead, read the emails. The climate models were discovered to be deliberately biased towards "warming" too.

Sure, there could be lots of refugees due to climate one day, but it's probably not because it'll be "warming". The climate changes frequently enough on it's own, thousands of times it has already done so without any humans to blame. Thousands of times hotter, colder, faster, more violently.

Situations such as Iraq could've been avoided altogether if the governments of nations like the USA, UK, and Australia weren't so enthusiastic about getting into wars against other nations filled with brown people.Seems like a lot of hype and intentional misleading of the public. Ten minutes of video relative to ten hours of this woman parading around likely trying to attract such attention isn't very convincing. Most of what was said was complimentary, and they even included mundane greetings such as "Good evening" as if they were somehow offensive. The video is nothing more than propaganda.While the rich grow richer and the poor become poorer, democracy in Australia is not working "fine".

While wars are joined in the name of Australians but not with their support nor choice, democracy in Australia is not working "fine".

While bankers enrichen themselves and the inflation rate continues to erode the earnings and savings of common Australias, democracy in Australia is not working "fine.

While supposedly "elected" government leaders ignore the promises that they have made and continue to lie to the Australian people, democracy in Australia is not working "fine".

While police state powers are increased, privacy eroded for the deceitful excuse of "security", democracy in Australia is not working fine.

The UN charter and the UN itself, as well as international laws and treaties are increasingly ignored by Western government leaders. Hiding behind pieces of paper that are treated as mere convenience when desired, and disregarded when not, shows that "democracy" is not a priority of any western government of the past ten years. We have repeatedly seen Western governments instigate, or directly involve themselves, in the toppling of other non-Western democracies and installing fake "democracies" and oppressive dictatorial regimes instead. Occasionally, as what happened in Australia in 1973, we see what happens when a Western nation's democratic ideals are inconvenient to the interests of the wealthy elites of other western nations, resulting in what amounted to a soft coup and the taking down of the elected government.No, Zing, you apparently prefer to ignore what I actually stated and chose to cherrypick instead. The points I made included that society did not mandate those outcomes, rigged political systems and corruption, political leaders who ignored the public's opinions, have been behind those wars and the increasing imbalance of incomes. I already stated this, yet you dishonestly tried word games.Zing, how could you so easily forget the peaceful revolution in Iceland? It happened. Not all revolutions require violence, in reality, many governments have been toppled from power by the will of the people simply by the act of mass disobedience and ignoring unethical orders from those government leaders.Oh, we must have the personal attack - don't bother using any rational debate. That just wouldn't do. it might result in the points that Russell Brand has made appear sensible and logical. So, let's get this bandwagon together and start throwing the mud around instead.On the contrary, Zing, the evidence of a conspiracy surrounding the events of the 9-11 attacks is overwhelming. It just isn't allowed to be shown on most mainstream media in the English-speaking western nations that are allied to the USA. That you choose to remain ignorant of the evidence or dismiss it for only the reason that it is never officially confirmed by the same establishment which is involved in the cover-up puts you in a minority these days. These days the majority of people can verify a lot more news for themselves. There are many sources for comparison. We can think. We are not limited to a few newspapers, a few TV networks, which are all owned by only a very few rich people whose interests are best served by pandering to the same agenda as the political authorities which they helped to get elected. We have choices now that we didn't have before. People have learned that almost everything which they were taught is filled with propaganda, distortions about history, and continued lies in the corporate media. We've learned that the Lusitania really did carry war material, that the Pearl Harbor attack was no surprise, that the Gulf of Tonkin was a beat-up exaggeration used as an excuse, that western governments engage in campaigns of false flag terrorism against their own citizens similar to Operation Gladio. The rest of us have  changed, become more cynical, sceptical of officialdom, and learned a lot - why not you?9-11 would have to be a conspiracy. Read a dictionary. One man didn't carry out everything all alone, therefore it was a conspiracy. It is just a matter of whose conspiracy, and that is the point of contention. Since I've never seen any convincing evidence presented, nor a legitimate investigation of the 9-11 attacks carried out, I have no belief in the official narrative pushed in the mainstream media and by the leaders of western governments. It is clear that there are lies and cover-up. The relatives and friends of the victims continue to demand a proper investigation, and are instead portrayed in the western mainstream media as kooks and nutters. With a parade of fringe opinions in the media being presented as representing the majority in yet another long line of lies the actual controversial issues.Everyone who knows history has never doubted that such conspiracies do occur and often. Only the defenders of the Status Quo would make use such an illogical denial of reality excuse as claiming incompetence prevents corruption and conspiracy among like-minded crooks. It doesn't, and it never has.Please stop misrepresenting the history of the term. Yes it has existed in use for centuries because real conspiracies are part of historical reality. They happen and always have happened. Secret societies, organised crime, spies, murder plots, and false flags are common in history. It was only after the JFK assassination that the term began being turned into one of derogatory implication as the USA authorities tried to discredit anyone and everyone who was sceptical of the official story that was being promoted about a lone gunman with no connections to anyone being able to kill a highly protected president from an impossible angle using a different bullet than the one the the gun he was alleged to have used would've fired.Kick the ball - not the man. You decided that Ad Hominem attack was easier than dealing with the logic of argument. Russell Brand has made some very good points, yet you chose to ignore those points and resort to personal attack instead.I personally don't agree with everything that Russell Brand has stated as his opinion, and while it's true that his views are not uncommon that doesn't detract from the rationality and truth of many of his statements regarding the system of government and the results of political manipulation in most Western nations. Like governments everywhere, there is corruption and the true views of the common public are rarely represented fairly. Our supposedly democratic governments appear often to work together with other Western governments in a manner which has clearly undemocratic results. We get dragged into wars that are highly unpopular. Western democracies continue to support extremely undemocratic actions, prop up oppressive regimes and call them "free", lie about torture and coups and mass murder. They lie about the reasons for wars and our political leaders are quite willing to erode the legal protections against oppressive actions by government, lie about the reasons for spying on the public, lie about why need more "security", and lie about why some muslim has be harassed by the police for having a plastic sword and childish blog posts. There are paid trolls hired by lobbyists with political interests that are allowed to freely distort public debate, and it's been revealed that many of these paid liars are working for these supposedly democratic governments in order to promote more lies in support of those same government leaders very undemocratic unethical - even criminal actions. Political lobbying and corporate interests outweigh the common public interest, and very frequently has results which are against the national interest as well despite the pretence otherwise. Our parliamentary "democracy" seems to be increasingly only a masquerade, with the word democracy shouted loudest and applauded most by those who ignore the meaning. They have turned the word itself into a lie. The major political parties always claim that they represent the public and their leaders always promise to do better, then when they get into office they do much the same with only a thin veneer of distinction on supposedly ideological grounds between them. The wings of left and right are on the same bird. They'll always portray any dissent against the establishment elites as radical, subversive, immature, loony, and allege that calls for change are too impatient. We are lied to by our governments and the corporate media all the time, and I am not the only one who is heartily disgusted with all the lies in our mainstream media."Better the devil you know than the devil you don't" is the kind of excuse used by every establishment regime throughout history when their authority is of doubtful legitimacy. Replacing one system with another does occasionally result in a fairer system for awhile, and at the very least has the benefit of removing most of the detritus of corrupt leaders and corrupt bureaucracy that had become oppressive.No, whoever you vote for, the same lobby groups and corrupt crooks behind the political establishment win. That is the true problem with the current system as it has become. The political parties no longer represent the public interest, they instead act in favour of the wealthy and already powerful.Another one who can only insult the person and refuses to respond to the message. That's the level of most of the criticism against Russell Brand and others of similar views as him. The establishment response is to use Ad Hominem because the debate doesn't favour their side when all the facts are put on the table and the logical arguments are presented. So how to protect the status quo? By shooting the messenger, of course.If you surrender democratic liberty for undemocratic security police state, then you don't have more democracy - you have less. This is what you're trying to defend. There isn't any going back in a dictatorial nor oligarchic police state once those freedoms are gone except by revolts and insurrection. Is this the kind of "democratic process" for winding back that you're referring to?The FBI kept making the same sort of excuses for their spying as well, and then claimed credit for stopping terrorists that they (FBI) who had set-up and instigated and supplied in the first place. What you're saying is in fact the same kind of nonsense. That's exactly what it is, because the FBI never once caught an actual terrorist before the act was committed in the past ten years without it later being discovered that they'd helped arrange things beneficially for the terrorists originally; sponsoring, encouraging, even providing the weapons and bomb materials. There wouldn't be anywhere near as much terrorism without the FBI doing this.No, it's because Israel is there in the Middle East and that is what is the root cause of most of the troubles besetting the Middle East. The imposing of what is a Western colony onto the people of Palestine, and the strategic use of Israel by Western nations in order to threaten the oil resource rich Arab nations."The simple fact is that most acts of terror are perpetrated by Islamic jihadists."

That is neither a 'fact', it's a misrepresentation - perhaps with an agenda, perhaps without thought - but the reality is that most acts of terror are carried out by governments. Israeli has terrorised the Palestinians for decades. The USA and other western nations allied with the USA in their incessant wars have terrorised and slaughtered over 60 million civilians since WW2, always with a trumped up pretext, rarely for any real legitimate rationale, and always claiming that bombing brown people in other nations (which just happen to have oil or other resources of strategic importance) is for a "good cause".

It is also easily verified - as James Corbett has supported with an open source investigation of ISIS - that it is western intelligence agencies, Israel, and those Middle East nation allied with the West such as Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Qatar who are behind the creation and growth of many of these so-called "islamic jihadist" groups. They funded them, trained them, provided them with the hardware, and even medical care. They've been carrying out similar policies for decades in Africa and Southern Asia.I have no where in the actual Quran anything stating that a follower of Islam should not have other friends outside of Islam. Instead, there is repeated respect for the People of the Book, the Bible.

There are, unfortunately, blogs and other websites, whose writers have an anti-Islamic agenda and will misrepresent Islam. Perhaps you should read further and go to original source and not bother with those poorly written blogs.Doesn't say anything there that could be related to what you claim. I have the Quran. I didn't look up on the internet at some blog, I have the book. I continue to believe that you have misrepresented what is said.Judeo-Christian Military Industrial Complex would be more accurate. Israel and the Zionist lobbyists are a major factor in the violence in the Middle East. Israel couldn't do what it does, and get away with the terror and oppression against the Palestinian people, their repeated instigations of conflicts with neighbouring nations, without the support of the Zionist lobby in the USA and other Western nations.That's because the rulers don't give a damn about the opinions of those ruled while they have an army to point guns at the ruled.I'll have to be honest here, I am very sceptical of your claims without evidence.Your statements, Joe Bloggs are the opposite of the actual events. It was NATO footage exposed as being from a computer game, not the Russian satellite data. The USA's satellite data allegedly showing a missile launch had no date or time stamps and no way to verify location. NATO released images from a Digital Globe satellite, which showed harvesters and other farm vehicles, which they tried to claim were Russian artillery and military vehicles. Again, with no time stamp or date or anyway to verify the location.

Accusing everyone of "conspiracy theories" is just a fallback position for a propagandist trying to defend their government's lies.
